Abandoned Love  

by Bob Dylan 
(from Biograph collection)



My heart is telling me, I love you still


Verses:

I can see the turning of the key
I've been deceived by the clown inside of me
I thought that he was righteous but he's vain
Something's telling me, I wear the ball and chain

My patron saint is a-fighting with a ghost
He's always off somewhere when I need him most
The Spanish moon is rising on the hill
But something's telling me, I love you still

I come back to the town from the flaming ruins
But when I see you in the street I begin to swoon
I love to see you dress before the mirror
Won't you let me in your room one time, before I finally disappear

Everybody's wearing a disguise
To hide what they've got left behind their eyes
But me I can't cover what I am
Wherever their children go, I'll follow them

I'm marching the parade of liberty
But as long as I love you I'm not free
How long must I suffer such abuse
Won't you let me see you smile, before I turn you loose

I've given up the game I've got to leave
The pot of gold is only make believe
The treasure can't be found by men who search
Who's gods are dead and whose queens are in the church

We sat in an empty theater and we kissed
I asked you please to cross me off your list
My head tells me it's time to make a change
But my heart is telling me, I love you but you're strange

So one more time at midnight near the wall
Take off your heavy makeup and your shawl
Won't you descend from the throne from whence you sit
And let me feel your love one more time, before I finally abandon it



Absolutely Sweet Marie

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)



Well, your railroadgate, you know I just can't jump it.
Sometimes it gets so hard, you see.
I'm just sitting here beating on my trumpet,
with all these promises you left for me.
But where are you tonight, sweet Marie ?

Well, I waited for you when I was half sick.
Yes I waited for you when you hated me.
Well, I waited for you inside of the frozen traffic
When you knew I had some other place to be.
Now, where are you tonight, sweet Marie ?

Well, anybody can be just like me, obviosly,
But then, now again, not too many can be like you, fortunately.
Well, six white horses that you did promise me
Where finaly delivered down to the penitentiary.
But to live outside the law, you must be honest.
I know you always say that you agree,
But where are you tonight, sweet Marie ?

Now, I been in jail when all my mail showed
That a man can't give his address out to bad company,
And now I stand here lookin' at your yellow railroad
In the ruins of your balcony,
Wond'ring where are you tonight, sweet Marie ?

Well I don't know how it happened,But the riverboat captain,he knows my fate
But ev'rybody else, even yourself, they're just gonna have to wait.
Well, I got the fever down in my pockets,
The Persian drunkard, he follows me.
Yes, I can take him to your house, but I can't unlock it.
You see, you forgot to leave me with the key.
Oh, where are you tonight, sweet Marie ?




You ain't going nowhere

Bob Dylan

Clouds so swift, the rain won't lift
The gates won't close, the railings froze
Get your mind off wintertime
You ain't going nowhere 

Ooo-wee, ride me high
Tomorrow's the day my bride's gonna come
Ooh, ooh, are we gonna fly
Down in the easy chair

I don't care how many letters they sent
The morning came and the morning went
Pick up your money, pack up your tent,
You ain't going nowhere

Ooo-wee...

Buy me a flute and a gun that shoots
Tailgates and substitutes 
Strap yourself to the tree with roots
You ain't going nowhere

Ooo-wee...

Gengis Khan he could not keep
All his kings supplied with sleep
We'll climb that hill no matter how steep
When we get up to it

Ooo-wee...




ALL ALONG THE WATCHTOWER
(Words and Music by Bob Dylan)
1968, 1985 Dwarf Music

"There must be some way out of here," said the joker to the thief,
"There's too much confusion, I can't get no relief.
Businessmen, they drink my wine, plowmen dig my earth,
None of them along the line know what any of it is worth."

"No reason to get excited," the thief, he kindly spoke,
"There are many here among us who feel that life is but a joke.
But you and I, we've been through that, and this is not our fate,
So let us not talk falsely now, the hour is getting late."

All along the watchtower, princes kept the view
While all the women came and went, barefoot servants, too.

Outside in the distance a wildcat did growl,
Two riders were approaching, the wind began to howl.


Any Day Now

Bob Dylan

They say everything can be replaced,
That every distance is not near,
So I remember every face,
Of every man who's put me here.

I see my light come shining,
From the west unto the east.
Any day now, any way now,
I shall be released.

They say every man needs protection,
That every man must rise and fall.
Yet I swear I see my reflection,
Somewhere so high above this wall.
     
Yonder stands a man in this lonely crowd,
A man who swears he's not to blame.
All day long I hear him shouting so loud,
He's crying out that he was framed.
 
Any day now, any way now,
I shall be released.




Arthur McBride

Traditional Irish



Oh me and my cousin one Arthur McBride
As we went a-walking down by the seaside
A-marking what followed and what might betide
For it being on Christmas morning
And for recreation we went on a tramp
And we met Sergeant Harper and Corporal Ramp
And the little wee drummer intending to camp
For the day being pleasant and charming 

"Good morning, good morning" the Sergeant he cried
"And the same to you gentlemen" we did reply
Intending no harm as we meant to pass by
For it being on Christmas morning
But says he "My fine fellows if you will enlist
It's ten guineas in gold I will slip in your fists
And a crown in the bargain for to  kick up the dust
And drink the King's health in the morning

For a soldier he leads a very fine life
He always is blessed with a charming young wife
And he pays all his debts without sorrow and strife
And he always lives pleasant and charming
And a soldier he always is decent and clean
In the finest of clothing he's constantly seen
While other poor fellows look dirty and mean
And sup on thin gruel in the morning"

But says Arthur "I wouldn't be proud of your clothes
For you've only the lend of them, as I suppose
And you dare not change them one night for you know
If you do you'll be flogged in the morning
And although that we are single and free 
We take great delight in our own company
And we have no desire strange faces to see
Although that your offers are charming
And we have no desire to take your advance
All hazards and dangers we barter on chance
For you would have no scruple for to send us to France
Where we would get shot without warning

"Oh no," says the Sergeant, "I'll hear no such chat
And I never will take it from spalpeen or brat
For if you insult me with one other word
I'll cut off your heads in the morning"
And then Arthur and I we soon drew our odds
And we scarce gave them time for to draw their own blades
When a trusty shillelagh came over their heads
And bade them take that as fair warning

And their old rusty rapiers that hung by their sides
We flung them as far as we could in the tide
"Now take them out, devils," cried Arthur McBride
"And temper their edge in the morning"
And the little wee drummer we flattened his pouch
And we made a foot-bowl of his rowdy-dowd-dowd
Threw it in the tide for to rock and to roll
And bade it a tedious returning

And we having no money, paid them off in cracks
And we paid no respect to their two bloody backs
But we lathered them there like a pair of wet sacks
And left them for dead in the morning
And so to conclude and to finish disputes
We obligingly asked if they wanted recruits
For we were the lads who would give them hard clouts 
And bid them look sharp in the morning


A HARD RAIN'S A GONNA FALL

Bob Dylan
(from The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan, 1963)


Oh, where have you been, my blue eyed son?
Oh, where have you been, my darling young one?
I've stumbled on the side of twelve misty mountains
I've walked and I've crawled on six crooked highways
I've stepped in the middle of seven sad forests
I've been out in front of a dozen dead oceans
I've been ten thousand miles in the mouth of a graveyard 
And it's a hard, and it's a hard, it's a hard, and it's a hard
And it's a hard rain's a gonna fall

Oh, what did you see, my blue eyed son?
Oh, what did you see, my darling young one? 
I saw a newborn baby with wild wolves all around it
I saw a highway of diamonds with nobody on it
I saw a black branch with blood that kept drippin'
I saw a room full of men with their hammers a bleedin'
I saw a white ladder all covered with water 
I saw ten thousand talkers whose tongues were all broken 
I saw guns and sharp swords in the hands of young children
And it's a hard, and it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard
And it's a hard rain's a gonna fall

And what did you hear, my blue eyed son? 
And what did you hear, my darling young one? 
I heard the sound of a thunder, it roared out a warnin'
Heard the roar of a wave that could drown the whole world
Heard one hundred drummers whose hands were a blazin'
Heard ten thousand whisperin' and nobody listenin'
Heard one person starve, I heard many people laughin'
Heard the song of a poet who died in the gutter
Heard the sound of a clown who cried in the alley
And it's a hard, and it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard
And it's a hard rain's a gonna fall

Oh, who did you meet, my blue eyed son? 
Who did you meet, my darling young one? 
I met a young child beside a dead pony
I met a white man who walked a black dog
I met a young woman whose body was burning
I met a young girl, she gave me a rainbow
I met one man who was wounded in love
I met another man who was wounded with hatred
And it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard
It's a hard rain's a gonna fall

Oh, what'll you do now, my blue eyed son? 
Oh, what'll you do now, my darling young one? 
I'm a goin' back out 'fore the rain starts a fallin' 
I'll walk to the depths of the deepest black forest
Where the people are many and their hands are all empty
Where the pellets of poison are flooding their waters
Where the home in the valley meets the damp dirty prison
Where the executioner's face is always well hidden
Where hunger is ugly, where souls are forgotten
Where black is the color, where none is the number
And I'll tell it and think it and speak it and breathe it
And reflect it from the mountain so all souls can see it
Then I'll stand on the ocean until I start sinkin'
But I'll know my song well before I start singin'
And it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard
It's a hard rain's a gonna fall





Baby I'm in the Mood for You         

Bob Dylan
(from the album Biograph) 

Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna milk my milk cow low
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna leave my lonesome home
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna hit that highway road
But then again and again I said oh oh oh
Oh Babe I'm in the mood for you

Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna turn my back to the wall
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna live in my pony stall
Sometimes I'm in the mood I ain't gonna do nothin at all
But then again and again I said oh I said oh I said
Oh babe, I'm in the mood for you

Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna change my house around
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna change the things in the town
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna change the whole world around
But then again and again I said oh I said oh I said
Oh babe, I'm in the mood for you

Sometimes I'm in the mood I'm gonna give away all my sins
Sometimes I'm in the mood I wanna walk the road again
Sometimes I'm in the mood and I'm bound to lose again
But then again and again I said oh I said oh I said
Oh babe, sometimes I'm in the mood for you



BABY, STOP CRYING 

by Bob Dylan



You been down to the bottom with a bad man, babe,
But you're back where you belong.
Go get me my pistol, babe,
Honey, I can't tell right from wrong

Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying.

You know, I know, the sun will always shine
So baby, please stop crying 'cause it's tearing up my mind.

Go down to the river, babe,
Honey, I will meet you there.
Go down to the river, babe,
Honey, I will pay your fare.

Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying.

You know, I know, the sun will always shine
So baby, please stop crying 'cause it's tearing up my mind.

If you're looking for assistance, babe
Or if you just want some company
Or if you just want a friend you can talk to,
Honey, come and see about me.

Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying.

You know, I know, the sun will always shine
So baby, please stop crying 'cause it's tearing up my mind.

You been hurt so many times
And I know what you're thinking of.
Well, I don't have to be no doctor, babe,
To see that you're madly in love.

Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying, stop crying, stop crying
Baby, please stop crying.

You know, I know, the sun will always shine
So baby, please stop crying 'cause it's tearing up my mind.




Black Diamond Bay

Bob Dylan
(From the album "DESIRE")

Up on the white veranda
She wears a neck tie and a panama hat
Her passport shows her face from
Another time and place she looks nothing like that
And all of the remnants of her
Recent past are scattered in the wild wind
She walks across the marble floor where a
Voice from the gambling room is calling her to come on in
She smiles walks the other way
As the last ship sails and the moon fades away
From Black Diamond Bay


As the morning light breaks open
The Greek walks down and he asks for a rope and a pen that will write
Pardon monsieur the Desk Clerk says
Carefully removes his fez, am I hearing you right
And as the yellow fog is lifting
The Greek is quickly heading for the second floor
She passes him on the spiral staircase
Thinking he's the Soviet ambassador
She starts to speak but he walks away
As the storm clouds rise and the palm branches sway
On Black Diamond Bay


A Soldier sits beneath the fan doing
Business with the Tiny Man who sells him a ring
Lightning strikes the lights blow out
The Desk Clerk wakes he begins to shout can you see anything
Then the Greek appears on the second floor in his
Barefeet with a rope around his neck
While the loser in the gambling room
Lights up a candle says open up another deck
But the dealer says attendez-vous sil vous plait
As the rain beats down and the cranes fly away
From Black Diamond Bay


The Desk Clerk heard the Woman laugh as he
Looked around in the aftermath and the soldier got tough
He tried to grab the Woman's hand
Said here's a ring it cost a grand she said that ain't enough
Then she ran upstairs to pack her bags while a
Horse-drawn taxi waited at the curb
She passed the door that the Greek had locked where a
Hand-written sign read Do not disturb
She knocked upon it anyway
As the sun went down and the music did play
On Black Diamond Bay


I've got talk to someone quick but the
Greek said go away and kicked the chair to the floor
He hung there from the chandelier she
Cried help there's danger near please open up the door
Then the volcano erupted and the
Lava flowed down from the mountain high above
The Soldier and the Tiny Man were
Crouched in the corner thinking of forbidden love
The Desk Clerk says it happens every day
As the stars fell down and the fields burned away
On Black Diamond Bay


As the island slowly sank the
Loser finally broke the bank in the gambling room
The dealer said it's too late now you can
Take your money but I don't know how you'll spend it in the tomb
The Tiny Man bit the Soldier's ear as the
Floor caved in and the boiler in the basement blew
While she's out on the balcony where a
Stranger tells her my darling je vous aime beaucoup
She sheds a tear then begins to pray
As the fire burns on and the smoke drifts away
On Black Diamond Bay


I was sitting home alone one night in
LA watching old Cronkite on the seven o'clock news
It seems there was an earthquake there
Left nothing but a panama hat and a pair of old Greek shoes
Didn't seem like much was happening so I
Turned it off and went to grab another beer
Seems like every time you turn around there's
Another hard luck story that you're gonna hear
And there's really nothing anyone can say
And I never did plan to go anyway
To Black Diamond Bay




BLIND WILLIE McTELL

Bob Dylan
(originally done around 1983, released as part of The Bootleg
Series, 1-3)


Seen the arrow on the doorpost
Saying this land is condemned
All the way from New Orleans to Jeruselem
I travelled to East Texas
Where many martyrs fell
And I know no one can sing the blues
Like Blind Willie McTell

Well I heard that hooter singing
As they were taking down the tents
The stars above the barren trees
Were his only audience
Them charcoal gypsy maidens
Can strut their feathers well
But nobody can sing the blues like Blind Willie McTell

See them big plantations burning
Hear the cracking of the whips
Smell that sweet magnolia blooming
See the ghosts of slavery ships
I can hear them tribes a moaning
Hear that undertaker's bell
Nobody can sing the blues like Blind Willie McTell

There's a woman by the river
With some fine young handsome man
He's dressed up like a squire
Bootleg whiskey in his hand
There's a chain gang on a highway
I can hear them rebels yell
But I know no one can sing the blues like Blind Willie McTell

Well God is up in Heaven
And we are what was his
But power,greed and corruptable seed
Seem to be all that there is
I'm gazing out the window
of the St. James Hotel
And I know no one can sing the blues like Blind Willie McTell



BLOWIN' IN THE WIND

Bob Dylan 

How many roads must a man walk down 
Before you call him a man
Yes, 'n' how many seas must a white dove sail
Before she sleeps in the sand?
Yes, 'n' how many times must the cannonballs fly
Before they are forever banned? 

The answer my friend
Is blowin' in the wind
The answer is blowin' in the wind. 

How many times must a man look up 
Before he can see the sky? 
Yes, 'n' how many ears must one man have 
Before he can hear people cry? 
Yes, 'n' how many deaths will it take till he knows 
That too many people have died? 

How many years can a mountain exist 
Before it is washed to the sea? 
Yes, 'n' how many years can some people exist 
Before they're allowed to be free? 
Yes, 'n' how many times can a man turn his head 
Pretending he just doesn't see? 





Bob Dylan's Dream
Bob Dylan

While riding on a train going west
I fell asleep for to take my rest.
I dreamed a dream that made me sad
Concerning myself and the first few friends I had.

With half damp eyes I stared to the room
Where my friends and I spent many an afternoon,
Where we together weathered many a storm,
Laughing and singing 'till the early hours of the morn.

By the old wooden stove where our hats were hung,
Our words were told and our songs were sung;
We longed for nothing and were satisfied
Talking and joking about the world outside.

With haunted hearts through the heat and cold,
We never thought we could get very old
We thought we could sit forever in fun
Though our chances really were a million to one.

As easy it was to tell black from white,
It was all that easy to tell wrong from right;
Our choices were few and the thought never hit
That the one road we traveled would ever shatter and split.

Ah many a year has passed and gone,
And many a gamble has been lost and won;
And many a road taken by many a friend,
And each one of them I've never seen again.

I wish, I wish, I wish in vain,
That we could sit simply in that room once again;
Ten thousand dollars at the drop of a hat,
I'd give it all gladly if our lives could be like that.




Boots of Spanish Leather

Bob Dylan
(Times they are a'changin')



Well I'm sailin away my own true love.
I'm sailin' away in the mornin'
Is there something I can send you from across the sea,
From the place where I'll be landin'?

No, there's nothing you can bring me my own true love.
There's nothing I wish to be ownin'.
Just carry yourself back to me unspoiled
from across that lonesome ocean.

Well I just though you might want something fine
made of silver or of golden
either from the mountains of Madrid
or the coast of Barcelona.

If I had the stars from the darkest night
and the diamonds from the deepest ocean,
I'd foresake them all for your sweet kiss,
for that's all I'm wishin' to be ownin'

That I might be gone a long old time,
and it's only that I'm askin'.
Is there something I can give you to remember me by,
To make your time more easy passin'?

Oh how can, how can you ask me again?
It only brings me sorrow.
For the same thing that I want from you today
I would want again tomorrow.

Well I got a letter on a lonesome day.
It was from her ship a'sailin'.
Sayin' "I don't know when I'll be comin' back again.
It depends on how I'm feelin'."

Well if you my love must think that a'way
I'm sure your mind is a'roamin'.
I'm sure your heart is not with me
but with the country where you're goin'.

So take heed, take heed of the Western wind.
Take heed of the stormy weather.
And yes, there's something you can send back to me;
SPANISH BOOTS OF SPANISH LEATHER.



Buckets of rain

Bob Dylan
(Blood on the tracks)


Buckets of rain, buckets of tears,
got all them buckets comin' out of my ears.
Buckets of moonbeams in my hand,
I got all the love, honey baby, you can stand.

I been meek and hard like an oak,
I seen pretty people disappear like smoke.
Friends will arrive, friends will disappear,
if you want me, honey baby, I'll be here.

Like your smile and your fingertips,
like the way that you move your lips.
I like the cool way you look at me,
everything about you is bringing me misery.

Little red wagon, little red bike,
I ain't no monkey but I know what I like.
I like the way you love me strong and slow,
I'm taking you with me, honey baby, when I go.

Life is sad, life is a bust,
all you can do is do what you must.
You do what you must do and you do it well,
I'll do it for you, honey baby, can't you tell.





CHANGING OF THE GUARDS

Bob Dylan


Sixteen years,
Sixteen banners united over the fields
While the good shepherd grieves
Desperate men, desperate women divided,
Spreading their wings 'neath the falling leaves.

Fortune calls.
I stepped forth from the shadows, to the marketplace,
Merchants and thieves, hungry for power, my last deal gone down.
She's smelling sweet like the meadows where she was born,
On midsummer's eve, near the tower.

The cold-blooded moon.
The captain waits above the celebration
Sending his thoughts to a beloved maid
Whose ebony face is beyond communication.
The captain is down but still believing that his love will be repaid.

They shaved her head.
She was torn between Jupiter and Apollo.
A messenger arrived with a black nightingale.
I seen her on the stairs and I couldn't help but follow,
Follow her down past the fountain where they lifted her veil.

I stumbled to my feet.
I rode past destruction in the ditches
With the stitches still mending 'neath a heart-shaped tattoo.
Renegade priests and treacherous young witches
Were handing out the flowers that I'd given to you.

The palace of mirrors
Where dog soldiers are reflected,
The endless road and the wailing of chimes,
The empty rooms where her memory is protected,
Where the angels' voices whisper to the souls of previous times.

She wakes him up
Forty-eight hours later, the sun is breaking
Near broken chains, mountain laurel and rolling rocks.
She's begging to know what measures he now will be taking
He's pulling her down and she's clutching on to his long golden locks.

Gentlemen, he said,
I don't need your organization, I've shined your shoes,
I've moved your mountains and marked your cards
But Eden is burning, either get brave for elimination
Or else your hearts must have the courage for the changing of the guards.

Peace will come
With tranquility and splendor on the wheels of fire
But will offer no reward when her false idols fall
And cruel death surrenders with its pale ghost retreating
Between the King and the Queen of Swords.


CHIMES OF FREEDOM
(Words and Music by Bob Dylan)
 1964 Warner Bros. Inc
 Renewed 1992 Special Rider Music

Far between sundown's finish an' midnight's broken toll
We ducked inside the doorway, thunder crashing
As majestic bells of bolts struck shadows in the sounds
Seeming to be the chimes of freedom flashing
Flashing for the warriors whose strength is not to fight
Flashing for the refugees on the unarmed road of flight
An' for each an' ev'ry underdog soldier in the night
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.

In the city's melted furnace, unexpectedly we watched
With faces hidden while the walls were tightening
As the echo of the wedding bells before the blowin' rain
Dissolved into the bells of the lightning
Tolling for the rebel, tolling for the rake
Tolling for the luckless, the abandoned an' forsaked
Tolling for the outcast, burnin' constantly at stake
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.

Through the mad mystic hammering of the wild ripping hail
The sky cracked its poems in naked wonder
That the clinging of the church bells blew far into the breeze
Leaving only bells of lightning and its thunder
Striking for the gentle, striking for the kind
Striking for the guardians and protectors of the mind
An' the unpawned painter behind beyond his rightful time
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.

Through the wild cathedral evening the rain unraveled tales
For the disrobed faceless forms of no position
Tolling for the tongues with no place to bring their thoughts
All down in taken-for-granted situations
Tolling for the deaf an' blind, tolling for the mute
Tolling for the mistreated, mateless mother, the mistitled prostitute
For the misdemeanor outlaw, chased an' cheated by pursuit
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.

Even though a cloud's white curtain in a far-off corner flashed
An' the hypnotic splattered mist was slowly lifting
Electric light still struck like arrows, fired but for the ones
Condemned to drift or else be kept from drifting
Tolling for the searching ones, on their speechless, seeking trail
For the lonesome-hearted lovers with too personal a tale
An' for each unharmful, gentle soul misplaced inside a jail
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.

Starry-eyed an' laughing as I recall when we were caught
Trapped by no track of hours for they hanged suspended
As we listened one last time an' we watched with one last look
Spellbound an' swallowed 'til the tolling ended
Tolling for the aching ones whose wounds cannot be nursed
For the countless confused, accused, misused, strung-out ones an' worse
An' for every hung-up person in the whole wide universe
An' we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.




DEAR LANDLORD

Bob Dylan, 1968

Dear Landlord, please don't put a price on my soul,
My burden is heavy, my dreams are beyond control.
When that steamboat whistle blows,
I'm gonna give you all I got to give,
And I do hope you receive it well,
Depending on the way you feel that you live.

Dear Landlord, please heed these words that I speak,
I know you've suffered much, but in this you are not so unique.
All of us at times we might work too hard
To have it too fast and too much,
And anyone can fill his life up with things he can see
But he just cannot touch.

Dear Landlord, please don't dismiss my case,
I'm not about to argue, I'm not about to move to no other place.
Now each of us has his own special gift,
And you know this was meant to be true,
And if don't underestimate me,
I won't underestimate you.



Desolation Row

by Bob Dylan

They're selling postcards of the hanging.
They're painting the passports brown.
The beauty parlour's filled with sailors.
The circus is in town.
Here comes the blind commissoner.
They've got him in a trance.
One hand's tied to the tightrope walker.
The other is in his pants.
And the riot squad they're restless
They need some where to go.
As lady and I look out tonight
On Desolation Row.

Cinderella she seem so easy.
It takes on to know one she smiles.
Then puts her hand in her back pocket,
Betty davis style.
Then in comes Romeo he's moaning.
You Belong to me I believe.
And someone says your in the wrong place my friend
You better leave.
And the only sound that's left
After the ambulances go.
Is Cinderella sweeping up
On Desolation Row.

Now the moon is almost hidden
The stars are beginning to hide
The fortune telling lady
Has already taken all her things inside.
All except for Cane and Able
And the Hunch Back of Notre Dame
Everyone is making love
Or else expecting rain
And the good samaritan he's dressing
He's gettin ready for the show.
He's going to the carinval
Tonight on Desolation Row.

Now Ophelia she's 'neath the window.
For her I feel so afraid.
On her twenty-second birthday
She already is an old maid.
To her death is quite romantic.
She wears an iron vest.
Her profession's her religion,
Her sin is her lifelessness.
And though her eyes are fixed upon
Noah's great rainbow
She spends her time peeking
Into Desolation Row.

Einstein disguised as Robin Hood
With his memories in a trunk
Passed this way an hour ago
With his friend a jealous monk.
He looked so frightful
As he bummed a cigarette
Then went off sniffing drain pipes
And reciting the alphabet.
No you would not think to look at him
That he was famous long ago
For playing electric violin
On Desolation Row.

Doctor filth he keeps his word
Inside a leather cup
But all his sexless patients
Are trying to blow it up.
Now his nurse a local looser
She's in charge of the cyanaide hole
And she also keeps the cards that read
Have mercy on his soul.
They all play on penny whistles
You can hear them blow
If you lean your head out far enough
From Desolation Row

Across the street they've nailed the curtains
They're gettin ready for the feast
The phantom of the opera
A perfect image of a priest
They're spoon feedin Casonova
To get him to feel more assured
Then they'll killed him with self confidence
After poisoning him with words
And the phantom shouting to skinning girls
Get outta her don't you know
Casanova is just being punished
For going to Desolation Row.

Now at midnight all the agents
And the superhuman crews
Round up everyone
That knows more than they do.
Then they bring them to the factory
Where the heart attack machines
Is strapped across their shoulders
And then the kerosene
Is brought down from the castles
By insurance men that go
Check to see that nobody is escaping
To Desolation Row

Praise be to Nero's Neptune
The Titanic sails at dawn
And everybody shouting
Which side are you on
And Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot
Fighting in the captains tower
While calypso signers laugh at them
And fishermen hold flowers
Between the windows of the sea
Where lovely mermaids flow
And nobody has to think too much
About Desolation Row

Yes I received your letter yesterday
About the time the door knob broke.
When you asked me how I was
Was that some kind of joke.
All those people that you mention
Yes I know them they're quite lame.
I had to rearrange their faces
And give them all another name.
Right now I can't read too good
Don't send me no more letters no.
Not unless you mail them from
Desolation Row.




Dignity

By Bob Dylan



Fat man lookin' in a blade of steel
Thin man lookin' at his last meal
Hollow man lookin' in a cottonfield
For dig-ni-ty

Wise man lookin' in a blade of grass
young man lookin' in the shadows that pass
poor man lookin' through painted glass
For dignity

Somebody got murdered on New Year's Eve
Somebody said dignity was the first to leave
I went into the city, went into the town
went into the land of the midnight sun

Searchin' high, searchin' low
Searchin' everywhere I know
Askin' the cops wherever I go
Have you seen Dignity?

Blind man breakin' out of a trance
Puts both his hands in the pocket of chance
Hopin' to find one circumstance
Of dignity

I went to the wedding of Mary-lou
She said " I don't want nobody see me talkin' to you"
Said she could get killed if she told me what she knew
About dignity

I went down where the vultures feed
I would've gone deeper, but there wasn't any need
Heard the tongues of angels and the tongues of men
Wasn't any difference to me

Chilly wind sharp as a razor blade
House on fire, debts unpaid
Gonna stand at the window, gonna ask the maid
Have you seen dignity

Drinkin' man listens to the voice he hears
In a crowded room full of covered up mirrors
Lookin' into the lost forgotten years
For Dignity

Met Prince Phillip at the home of the blues
Said he'd give me information if his name wasn't used
He wanted money up front, said he was abused
By dignity

Footprints runnin' cross the silver sand
Steps goin' down into tatoo land
I met the sons of darkness and the sons of light
In the bordertowns of despair

Got no place to fade, got no coat
I'm on the rollin' river in a jerkin' boat
Tryin' to read a note somebody wrote
About dignity

Sick man lookin' for the doctor's cure
Lookin' at his hands for the lines that were
And into every masterpiece of literature
For dignity

Englishman stranded in the blackheart wind
Combin' his hair back, his future looks thin
Bites the bullet and he looks within
For dignity

Someone showed me a picture and I just laughed
Dignity never been photographed
I went into the red, went into the black
Into the valley of dry bone dreams

So many roads, So much at stake
So many dead ends, I'm at the edge of the lake
Sometimes I wonder what it's gonna take
To find dignity



Dirge

Bob Dylan
('Planet waves' album)

I hate myself for lovin' you  And the weakness that I showed ...
You were just a painted face  On a trip down Suicide Road.
The stage was set, the lights went out  All around the old hotel
I hate myself for lovin' you  And I'm glad the curtain fell.

I hate that foolish game we played  And the need that was expressed
And the mercy that you showed to me Whoever would have guessed
I went out on Lower Broadway  And I felt that place within
That hollow place where martyrs weep  And angels play with sin

Heard your songs of freedom  And man forever stripped
Acting out his folly  While his back is being whipped
Like a slave in orbit  He's beaten 'til he's tame
All for a moment's glory  And it's dirty, rotten shame

There are those who worship loneliness  I'm not one of them
In this age of fiberglass  I'm searching for a gem
The crystal ball up on the wall  Hasn't shown me nothing yet
I've paid the price of solitude  But at least I'm out of debt

Can't recall a useful thing  You ever did for me
'Cept pat me on the back one time  When I was on my knees
We stared into each other's eyes  'Til one of us would break
No use to apologize  What diff'rence would it make

So sing your praise of progress  And of the Doom Machine
The naked truth is still tabu  Whenever it can be seen
Lady Luck who shines on me  Will tell you where I'm at
I hate myself for lovin' you  But I should get over that



DON'T THINK TWICE, IT'S ALRIGHT 

by Bob Dylan 
(off "The Freewheelin'")

Well it ain't no use to sit and wonder why, baby 
If'n you don't know by now 
And it ain't no use to sit and wonder why, babe 
It'll never do somehow 
When your rooster crows at the break of dawn, 
look out your window and I'll be gone 
you're the reason I'm a travelling on 
But don't think twice, it's all right 
 
And it ain't no use in turning on your light babe 
the light I never knowed 
and it ain't no use in turning on your light babe 
I'm on the dark side of the road 
Well I wish there was something you would do or say 
to try and make me change my mind and stay 
we never did too much talking anyway 
But don't think twice, it's all right 
 
So it ain't no use in calling out my name, gal 
like you never done before 
and it ain't no use in calling out my name, gal 
I can't hear you any more 
I'm a thinkin' and a wonderin', walkin' down the road 
I once loved a woman, a child I am told 
I give her my heart but she wanted my soul 
Don't think twice, it's all right 
 
So long honey babe 
where I'm bound, I can't tell 
goodbye is too good a word babe 
so I'll just say fare the well 
I ain't  a sayin' you treated me unkind 
you coulda done better but, I don't mind 
you just kinda wasted my precious time  
Don't think twice, it's all right 



Emotionally Yours						

Bob Dylan


Come baby, find me, come baby, remind me of where I once begun.
Come baby, show me, show me you know me, tell me you're the one.
I could be learning, you could be yearning to see behind closed doors.
But I will always be emotionally yours.

Come baby, rock me, come baby, lock me into the shadows of your heart.
Come baby, teach me, come baby, reach me, let the music start.
I could be dreaming but I keep believing you're the one I'm living for.
And I will always be emotionally yours.

It's like my whole life never happened,
When I see you, it's as if I never had a thought.
I know this dream, it might be crazy,
But it's the only one I've got.

Come baby, shake me, come baby, take me, I would be satisfied.
Come baby, hold me, come baby, help me, my arms are open wide.
I could be unraveling wherever I'm traveling, even to foreign shores.
But I will always be emotionally yours.


EVERYTHING IS BROKEN

Bob Dylan
(from Oh Mercy!, 1989)


Broken lines, broken strings, broken threads, broken springs
Broken idols, broken heads, people sleeping in broken beds
Ain't no use jivin', ain't no use jokin'
Everything is broken

Broken bottles, broken plates, broken switches, broken gates
Broken dishes, broken parts, streets are filled with broken hearts
Broken words never meant to be spoken
Everything is broken

Seems like every time you stop and turn around
Something else has just hit the ground

Broken cutters, broken saws, broken buckles, broken laws
Broken bodies, broken bones, broken voices on broken phones
Take a deep breath, feel like you're chokin'
Everything is broken

Every time you leave and go off some place
Things fall to pieces in my face

Broken hands on broken plows, broken treaties, broken vows
Broken pipes, broken tools, people bending broken rules
Hound dog howlin', bullfrog croakin'
Everything is broken





Farewell Angelina

Bob Dylan, recorded 1-13-65.
(Original title "Alcatraz to the 5th Power"?)

From "Bob Dylan the bootleg series, volumes 1-3"
(Columbia 47382)
This is a 3 CD box set that I highly recommend
for any Dylan fan.


Farewell Angelina, the bells of the crown
Are being stolen by bandits, I must follow the sound
The triangle tingles, the music plays slow
But farewell Angelina, the night is on fire, and I must go

There is no use in talking and there's no need for blame
There is nothing to prove, everything still is the same
The table stands empty by the edge of the stream
But farewell Angelina, the sky's changing colors, and I must leave

The jacks and the queens they have forsake the courtyard
Fifty-two gypsies now file past the guard
In the space where the duece and the ace once ran wild
Farewell Angelina, the sky is folding, I'll see you after a while

See the cross-eyed pirate sit perched in the sun
Shooting tin cans with a sawed-off shotgun
And the coporels and the neighbors clap and cheer with each blast
But farewell Angelina, the sky is trembling, and I must leave fast

King Kong little elves in the rooftops they dance
Valentino-type tangos while the hero's clean hands
Shut the eyes of the dead not to embarass anyone
Farewell Angelina, the sky is flooding over, and I must be gone

The camoflaged parrot, he flutters from fear
When something he doesn't know about suddenly appears
What can not be imitated perfect must die
Farewell Angelina, the sky's flooding over, and I must go where it is dry

Machine guns are roaring, puppets heave rocks
At misunderstood visions and at the faces of clocks
Call me any name you like, I will never deny it
But farewell Angelina, the sky is erupting, and I must go where it is quiet



FOREVER YOUNG

Bob Dylan
(originally from Planet Waves, 1973)

May God bless and keep you always
May your wishes all come true
May you always do for others
And let others do for you
May you build a ladder to the stars
And climb on every rung
And may you stay forever young
May you stay forever young

May you grow up to be righteous 
May you grow up to be true
May you always know the truth 
And see the lights surrounding you 
May you always be courageous 
Stand upright and be strong 
And may you stay forever young 
May you stay forever young

May your hands always be busy 
May your feet always be swift
May you have a strong foundation 
When the winds of changes shift 
May your heart always be joyful 
May your song always be sung 
May you stay forever young
May you stay forever young



Fourth Time Around

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)



When she said, "Don't waste your words, they're just lies," I cried she was deaf.
And she worked on my face until breaking my eyes, Then said, "What else you got left?"
It was then that I got up to leave But she said, "Don't forget,
Ev'rybody must give something back For something they get."


I stood there and hummed, I tapped on her drum and asked her how come.
And she buttoned her boot, And straightened her suit, Then she said, "Don't get cute."
So I forced my hands in my pockets And felt with my thumbs,
And gallantly handed her My very last peice of gum.


She threw me outside, I stood in the dirt where ev'ry-one walked.
And after finding I'd Forgotten my shirt, I went back and knocked.
I waited in the hallway, she went to get it, And I tried to make sense,
Out of that picture of you in your wheelchair That leaned up against...


Her Jamaican rum And when she did come, I asked her for some.
She said, "No, dear." I said, "Your words aren't clear, You'd better spit out your gum."
She screamed  till her face got so red, Then she fell on the floor,
And I covered her up and then Thought I'd go look through her drawer.


And when I was through, I filled up my shoe And brought it to you.
And you, you took me in, You loved me then, You didn't waste time.
And I, I never took much, I never asked for your crutch, Now don't ask for mine.





George Jackson

By Bob Dyaln

I woke up this morning,
There were tears in my bed.
They killed a man I really loved,
Shot him through the head.
Lord, Lord they cut George Jackson down.
Lord, Lord they laid him in the ground.

Sent him off to prison,
For a seventy dollar robbery.
Closed the door behind him,
And they threw away the key.
Lord, Lord they cut George Jackson down.
Lord, Lord they laid him in the ground

He  wouldn't take shit from noone,
He wouldn't bow down or kneel.
The authorities they hated him,
Beacuse he was just too real.
Lord Lord so they cut George Jackson down.
Lord Lord they laid him in the ground.

The prison guards they cursed him,
As they watched him from above.
But they were frightened of his power,
They were scared of his love.
Lord, Lord they cut George Jackson down.
Lord, Lord they laid him in the ground.

Sometimes I think this whole world,
Is one big prison yard.
Some of us are prisoners,
The rest of us are guards.
Lord Lord they cut George Jackson down.
Lord Lord they laid him in the ground.




GIRL FROM THE NORTH COUNTRY

by Bob Dylan 

Well, if you're travellin' in the north country fair,
Where the winds hit heavy on the borderline
Remember me to one who lives there
She once was a true love of mine.

Well, if you go in the snowflake storm
When the rivers freeze and summer ends
Please see she has a coat so warm
To keep her from the howlin' winds.

Please see for me if her hair hangs long
If it rolls and flows all down her breast,
Please see for me if her hair hangs long,
That's the way I remember her best.

I'm a wonderin' if she remembers me at all
Many times I've often prayed
In the darkness of my night
In the brightness of my day.

So if you're travellin' in the north country fair,
Where the winds hit heavy on the borderline
Remember me to one who lives there,
She once was a true love of mine.




House of the Risin' Sun (1961)

Bob Dylan

 


There is a house down in New Orleans
They call the Risin' Sun
And it's been the ruin of many poor girl
And me, oh God, I'm a-one

My mother was a tailor
She sewed these new blue jeans
My sweetheart was a gambler, Lord
Down in New Orleans

Now the only thing a gambler needs
Is a suitcase and a trunk
And the only time he's satisfied
Is when he's on a drunk

He fills his glasses up to the brim
And he'll pace the cards around
And the only pleasure he gets out of life
Is ramblin' from town to town

Oh tell my baby sister
Not to do as I have done
But to shun that house in New Orleans
They call the Risin' Sun

Well, it's one foot on the platform
And the other foot on the train
I'm goin' back to New Orleans
To wear that ball and chain

I'm a-goin' back to New Orleans
My race is almost run
I'm goin' back to end my life
Down in the Risin' Sun

There is a house in New Orleans
They call the Risin' Sun
It's been the ruin of many poor girl
And me, oh God, Im a-one

 

Hurricane

Bob Dylan

Pistol shots ring out in the barroom night
enter Patty Valentine from the upper hall
She sees the bartender in a pool of blood
Cries out "My God they killed them all!"
Here comes the story of the Hurricane,
The man the authorities came to blame
for something that he never done
Put in a prison cell but one time 
he could have been the champion of the world

Three bodied lying there does Patty see
and another man named Bello moving mysteriously
"I didn't do it" he says, and he throws up his hands
"I was only robbin the register, I hope you understand
I saw them leavin," he says and he stops
One of us had better call the cops
so Patty calls the cops
and they arrive on the scene with their red lights flashin
in the hot New Jersey night

Meanwhile somewhere in another part of town
Rubin Carter and a couple of friends are driving around
number one contender for the middleweight crown
had no idea what kind of shit was about to go down
when a cop pulled him over on the side of the road
just like the time before and the time before that
in Paterson that just the ways things go
If you black you might as well not show up on the streets 
Less you wanna draw the heat

Alfred Bello had a partner and he had a rap for the cops
Him and Arthur Dexter Bradley were just out prowlin around
He said "I saw two men runnin out, they looked like middleweights
They jumped into a white car with out of state plates"
And Miss Patty Valentine just nodded her head
Cop said "Wait a minute boys, this one's not dead"
so they took him to the infirmary
and although this man could hardly see
they told him that he could identify the guilty men

Four in the morning and they haul Rubin in
Take him to the hospital and bring him upstairs
the wounded man looks up though his one dying eye
says "why'd you bring him here for? he ain't the guy!"
Yes, here the story of the Hurricane
The man the authorities came to blame 
for something that he never done
put in a prison cell but one time he could've been
the champion of the world

Four months later the ghetto's in flame
Rubin's in South America fightin for his name
while Arthur Dexter Bradley's still in the robbery game
and the cops are puttin the screw to him looking for somebody to blame
"Remember that murder that happened in a bar?"
"Remember you said you saw the getaway car?"
"You think you'd like to play ball with the law?"
"Think it might have been that fighter that you saw running that night?"
"Don't forget that you are white"

Arthur Dexter Bradley said "I'm really not sure"
Cops said "A poor boy like you could really use a break
We got you for the motel job and were talking to your friend Bello
Now you don't want to ave to go back to jail, be a nice fellow
You'll be doin' society a favor 
That son of a bitch is brave and getting braver
We want to put his ass in the stir
We want to pin this trip murder on him
He ain't ne Gentleman Jim"

Rubin could take a man out with just one punch
he never did like to talk about it all that much
It's my work he'd say, I do it for pay
and when it's over I'd just as soon go on my way
up to some paradise
where the trout streams flow and the air is nice
and ride a horse along a trail
but then they took him to the jail house 
where they try to make a man into a mouse

All of Rubin's card were marked in advance
The trial was a pig-circus, he never had a chance
the judge made Rubin's witnesses drunkards from the slums
to the white folks who watched he was a revolutionary bum
but to the black folks he was a crazy nigger
no one doubted that he pulled the trigger
and though they could not produce the gun
the D.A. said he was the one who did the deed
And the all-white jury agreed

Rubin Carter was falsely tried
the crime was murder "one", guess who testified?
Bello and Bradley and the both badly lied
and the newspapers all went along for the ride
how can the life of such a man 
be in the palm of some fool's hand?
to see him obviously framed
couldn't help but be ashamed to live in a land
where justice is a game

Now all the criminal in their coats and their ties
are free to drink martinis and watch the sun rise
while Rubin sits like Buddha in a ten foot cell
and innocent man in a living hell
that's the story of the Hurricane
but it won't be over till they clear him name
and give him back the time he's done
put in a prison cell but one time he could've been
the champion of the world



IDIOT WIND

Bob Dylan
(from Blood On the Tracks, 1974)


Someone's got it in for me, they're planting stories in the press 
Whoever it is I wish they'd cut it out but when they will I can only guess
They say I shot a man named Gray and took his wife to Italy
She inherited a million bucks and when she died it came to me
I can't help it if I'm lucky

People see me all the time and they just can't remember how to act 
Their minds are filled with big ideas, images and distorted facts  
Even you, yesterday you had to ask me where it was at 
I couldn't believe after all these years
You didn't know me better than that, sweet lady 

Idiot wind, blowing every time you move your mouth
Blowing down the backroads headin' south  
Idiot wind, blowing every time you move your teeth
You're an idiot babe, it's a wonder that you still know how to breathe 

I ran into the fortune teller, who said beware of lightning that might 
strike 
I haven't known peace and quiet for so long I can't remember what it's 
like  There's a lone soldier on the cross, smoke pourin' out of a boxcar door
You didn't know it, you didn't think it could be done
In the final end he won the war after losin' every battle 

I woke up on the roadside, daydreamin' 'bout the way things sometimes are 
Visions of your chestnut mare shoot through my head and are makin' me see 
stars  You hurt the ones that I love best and cover up the truth with 
lies  
One day you'll be in the ditch, flies buzzin' around your eyes
Blood on your saddle 

Idiot wind, blowing through the flowers on your tomb
Blowing through the curtains in your room  
Idiot wind, blowing every time you move your teeth
You're an idiot, babe, it's a wonder that you still know how to breathe 

It was gravity which pulled us down and destiny which broke us apart 
You tamed the lion in my cage but it just wasn't enough to change my 
heart  
Now everything's a little upside down
As a matter of fact the wheels have stopped
What's good is bad, what's bad is good
You'll find out when you reach the top, you're on the bottom 

I noticed at the ceremony, your corrupt ways had finally made you blind 
I can't remember your face anymore, your mouth has changed
Your eyes don't look into mine  
The priest wore black on the seventh day
And sat stone faced while the building burned  
I waited for you on the running boards, near the cypress trees
While the springtime turned slowly into autumn 

Idiot wind, blowing like a circle around my skull
From the Grand Coulee Dam to the Capitol  
Idiot wind, blowing every time you move your teeth
You're an idiot, babe, it's a wonder that you still know how to breathe 

I can't feel you anymore, I can't even touch the books you've read 
Every time I crawl past your door, I been wishin' I was somebody else 
instead  Down the highway, down the tracks, down the road to ecstasy
I followed you beneath the stars, hounded by your memory 
And all your ragin' glory 

I been double crossed now for the very last time and now I'm finally free
I kissed goodbye the howling beast on the borderline
Which separated you from me  
You'll never know the hurt I suffered nor the pain I rise above
And I'll never know the same about you, your holiness or your kind of love
And it makes me feel so sorry 

Idiot wind, blowing through the buttons of our coats
Blowing through the letters that we wrote
Idiot wind, blowing through the dust upon our shelves
We're idiots, babe, it's a wonder we can even feed ourselves 





I'D HAVE YOU ANYTIME

George Harrison and Bob Dylan
(from All Things Must Pass, 1970)

Let me in here, I know I've been here
Let me into your heart
Let me know you, let me show you
Let me roll it to you

All I have is yours
All you see is mine
And I'm glad to hold you in my arms
I'd have you anytime

Let me say it, let me play it
Let me lay it on you
Let me know you, let me show you
Let me grow upon you 

Let me in here, I know I've been here
Let me into your heart
Let me know you, let me show you
Let me roll it to you 







If Not For You

Bob Dylan 1970  


If Not For You Babe, I couldn't even find the door
I couldn't even see the floor I'd be sad and blue
If Not For You 
If Not For You Babe the night would see me wide awake
The day would surely have to break It would not be new
If Not For You 
If Not For You my sky would fall, rain would gather too.
without your love I'd be nowhere at all, I'd be lost 
If Not For You  
If Not For You The winter would hold no spring 
Couldn't hear a robin sing I just wouldn't have a clue
If Not For You




IF YOU SEE HER, SAY HELLO

Bob Dylan


If you see her say hello, she might be in Tangiers
She left here last early spring, is living there I hear
Say for me that I'm alright, though things get kind of slow
She might think that I've forgotten her
Don't tell her it isn't so

We had a falling out, like lovers often will
And to think of how she left that night, it still brings me a chill
And though our separation, it pierced me to the heart
She still lives inside of me, we've never been apart

If you get close to her, kiss her once for me
I always have respected her, for doin' what she did and gettin free
Whatever makes her happy, I won't stand in the way
Though the bitter taste still lingers on
From the night I tried to make her stay

I see a lot of people, as I make the rounds
And I hear her name here and there as I go from town to town
And I've never gotten used to it, I've just learned to turn it off
Maybe I'm too sensitive, or else I'm gettin' soft

Sundown, yellow moon, I replay the past
I know every scene by heart, it all went by so fast
If she's goin' by this way, I'm not that hard to find
Tell her she can look me up if she's got the time





I'LL BE YOUR BABY TONIGHT

Bob Dylan
(from John Wesley Harding, 1968)

Close your eyes, close the door
You don't have to worry any more  
I'll be your baby tonight 

Shut the light, shut the shade
You don't have to be afraid  
I'll be your baby tonight 

Well, that mockingbird's gonna sail away
We're gonna forget it  
That big, fat moon is gonna shine like a spoon
But we're gonna let it, you won't regret it 

Kick your shoes off, do not fear
Bring that bottle over here
I'll be your baby tonight 



I SHALL BE RELEASED 

by Bob Dylan 

They say every man needs protection 
They say every distance is not near
But I remember every face
Of every man who put me here
 
I see my light come shinin' 
From the west down to the east
Any day now, any day now 
I shall be released 

They say every man can be replaced 
They say every man must fall 
But I swear I see my reflection 
Some place so high above the wall 

Standing next to me in this lonely room 
Is a man who swears he's not to blame 
All day long I hear him shout so loud 
Callin' out that he's been framed 



Isis

words by Bob Dylan & Jacques Levy
music by Bob Dylan

I married Isis on the fifth day of May
But I could not hold on to her very long
So I cut off my hair and I rode straight away
For the wild unkown country where I could not go wrong

I came to a high place of darkness and light
The dividing line ran through the centre of town
So I hitched up my pony to a post on the right
Went into a laundry to wash my clothes down

A man in the corner approached me for a match
I knew right away he was not ordinary
He said "Are you lookin' for something easy to catch?"
I said "I ain't got no money",He said "That ain't necessary".

We set out that night for the cold in the North.
I gave him my blanket, he gave me his word
I said, "Where are we goin'?" He said we'd be back by the fourth.
I said "That's the best news I ever heard."

I was thinking about turquiose I was thinking about gold.
I was thhinking about diamonds and the worlds biggest necklace.
As we rode through the canyons, through the devilish cold,
I was thinking about Isis, how sh thought I was so reckless.

How she told me that one day we'd meet up again,
And thing would be different the next time we wed.
If I only hang on and just be her friend.
I still can't remember all the best things she said.

We came to the pyramids all embedde in ice.
He said "There's a body I'm trying to find,
If I carry it out it'll fetch a good price."
Twas then that I knew what he had on his mind.

The wind it was howling and the snow was outrageous.
We chopped throught he night and we chopped throught he dawn.
When he died I was hopong that it wasn't contagious,
But I made up my mind that I had to go on.

I broke into the tomb but the casket was empty
There were no jewels no nothing, I felt I'd been had.
When I saw that my partner was just being friendly,
When I took up his offer I must-a been mad

I picked up his body and I dragged it inside,
Threw down into the hole and I put back the cover.
I said a quick prayer and I felt satified
Then I rode back to Isis just to tell her I love her.

She was there in the meadow where the creek used to rise.
Blinded by sleep and in need of a bed.
I came in from the East with the sun in my eyes.
I cursed one time then rode on ahead.

She said "Where ya been?" I said "No place special."
She said "You look different." I said "Well I guess."
She said "You been gone." I said "That's only natural."
She said "You gonna stay." I said "Well if you want me to yes."

Isis oh Isis you're a mystical child
What drives me to you is what drives me insane
I still can remember the way that you smiled
On the fifth day of May in the drizziling rain.


It's All Over Now, Baby Blue

Bob Dylan
(Subteranean Homesick Blues version)

You must leave now, take what you need, you think will last
But whatever you wish to keep, you better grab it fast
Yonder stands your orphan with his gun
Crying like a fire in the sun
Look out the saints are coming through
And it's all over now, Baby Blue.

The highway is for gamblers, better use your sense.
Take what you have gathered from coincidence.
The empty-handed painter from your streets
Is drawing crazy patterns on your sheets.
This sky, too, is folding under you
And it's all over now, Baby Blue.

All your seasick sailors, they are rowing home.
Your empty handed armies, they're all going home.
The lover who just walked out your door
Has taken all his blankets from the floor.
The carpet, too, is moving under you
And it's all over now, Baby Blue.

Leave your stepping stones behind, something calls for you.
Forget the dead you've left, they will not follow you.
The vagabond who's rapping at your door
Is standing in the clothes that you once wore.
Strike another match, go start anew
And it's all over now, Baby Blue.


IT'S ALLRIGHT MA

Bob Dylan
 
 
Darkness at the break of noon shadows even the silver spoon
The hand made blade, the child's balloon exlipses both the sun and moon
To understand you know too soon there is no sense in trying
Pointed threats they bluff with scorn, suicide remarks are torn
>From the fool's gold mouthpiece, the hollow horn
Plays wasted words, proves to warn that he not busy being born is busy dying
Watch waterfalls of pity roar, you feel to moan but unlike before
You discover that you'd just be one more person crying
So don't fear, if you hear, a foreign sound to your ear
It's allright ma, I'm only sighing
 
As some warn victory, some downfall, private reasons great or small
Can be seen in the eys of those that call
To make all that shoulc be killed to crawl
While others say don't hate nothing at all except hatred
Disillusioned words like bullets bark as human gods aim for their mark
Make everything from toy guns that spark
To flesh colored Christs that glow in the dark
It's easy to see without looking too far that not much is really sacred
While preachers preach of evil fates, teacherrs teach that knowledge waits
Can lead to hundred dollar plates, goodness hides behind its gates
But even the president of the United States must sometimes have to stand naked
And though the rules of the road have been lodged
It's only people's games that you've got to dodge
And it's allright ma, I can make it
 
Advertising signs that con you into thinking you're the one
That can do what's never been done, that can win what's nver been won
Meantime life outside goes on all around you
You lose yourself, you reappear you suddenly find you've got nothing to fear
Alone you stand with nobody near when a trembling distant voice unclear
Startles your sleeping ears to hear that somebody thinks they really found you
A question in your nerves is lit yet you know there is no answer fit
To satisfy, ensure you not to quit to keep it in your mind and not forget
That it is not he or she or them or it that you beling to
Although the masters make the rules for the wise men and the fools
I've got nothing ma, to live up to
 
For them that must obey authority that they don not respect in any degree
Who despise their jobs, their destinies Speak jealously of them that are free
Cultivate their flowers to be nothing more than something they invest in
While unprinciples baptize too strict party platform ties
Social clubs in drag disguise, outsiders they can freely criticize
Tell nothing except who to idolize and say 'God bless him'
While one who sings with his tongue on fire gargles in the rat race choir
Bent out of shape from society's pliers, cares not to come up any higher
But rather get you down in the holw that he's in
But I mean no harm nor put fault on anyone that lives in a vault
But it's allright ma, if I can't please him
 
Old lady judges watch people in paird, limited in sex they dare
To push fake morals, insultant stares while money doesn't talk, it swears
Obscenity, who really cares, propaganda all is phony
While them that defend what they cannot see with a killer's pride, security
It blows the mind most bitterly for them that think death's honesty
Won't fall upon them naturally life sometimes must get lonely
My eyes collide head on with stuffed graveyards, false goals, I scuff
At pettiness which plays so rough, walk upside down inside handcuffs
Kick my legs to crash it off, say OK I've had enough
What else can you show me and if my thought dreams could be seen
They'd probably put my head in a guillotine
But it's allright ma, it's life and life only
 
 

so don't fear if you hear a foreign sound to your ear
its    all    right  ma         I'm only sighing
 
 


IT AIN'T ME BABE by Bob Dylan 

Go 'way from my window leave at your own chosen speed
I'm not the one you want, Babe, I'm not the one you need.
You say you're looking for someone never weak but always strong
To protect you and defend you whether you are right or wrong
Someone to open each and every door
But it ain't me, Babe,
No, no, no, it ain't me, Babe,
It ain't me you're looking for, Babe. 

Go lightly from the ledge, Babe, go lightly on the ground,
I'm not the one you want, Babe, I will only let you down.
You say you're looking for someone 
who will promise never to part
Someone to close his eyes for you, someone to close his heart
Someone who will die for you and more 
But it ain't me, Babe,
No, no, no, it ain't me, Babe,
It ain't me you're looking for, Babe.

Go melt back in the night, Babe, 
everything inside is made of stone,
There's nothing in here moving and anyway I'm not alone
You say you're looking for someone 
Who'll pick you up each time you fall,
To gather flowers constantly and to come each time you call
A love of your life and nothing more 
But it ain't me, Babe,
No, no, no, it ain't me, Babe,
It ain't me you're looking for, Babe.



 
IT TAKES A LOT TO LAUGH,
IT TAKES A TRAIN TO CRY

Bob Dylan
 
Well, I ride on a mail train, baby,     can't buy a thrill
I been up all night, leanin' on the window sill
Well, if I die on top of the hill
Well, if I don't make it mama, you know my baby will
 
Don't the moon look good mama, shinin' through the trees
Don't the brakemen look good mama, flaggin' down the double E's
Don't the sun look good goin' down over the sea
But don't my gal look fine when she's comin' after me
 
Now the wintertime is coming, the windows are filled with frost
I went to tell everybody, but I could not get across
I wanna be your lover baby, I don't wanna be your boss
Don't say I never warned you when your train gets lost
 



I and I

Bob Dylan.

	
Been so long since a strange woman slept in my bed,
See how sweet she sleeps,
How free must be her dreams.
In another lifetime she must of owned the world,
Or been faithfully wed,
To some righteous king who wrote love songs,
Beside moonlit streams,

I and I, in Creation where one's nature neither honors nor forgives,
I and I, One said to the other, no mans sees my face and lives.


Took an untrodden path once where the swift don't win the race,
It goes to the worthy,
Who can can divine the word of truth.
It took a stranger to see teach me,
To look into justices' beautiful face.
And to see an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.

I and I, in Creation where one's nature neither honors nor forgives,
I and I, One said to the other, no mans sees my face and lives.

Think I'll go out,
An' go for a walk.
Not much happening here,
But then again nothin' ever does.
Besides if she wakes up now,
She'll just want me to talk,
An I got nothing to say,
Specially about what ever it was.

I and I, in Creation where one's nature neither honors nor forgives,
I and I, One said to the other, no mans sees my face and lives.




I Want You

Dylan

The guilty undertaker sighs,
The lonesome organ grinder cries,
The silver saxophones say I should refuse you.
The cracked bells and washed-out horns 
Blow into my face with scorn,
But it's not that way,
I wasn't born to lose you.
I want you, I want you,
I want you so bad,
Honey, I want you.

The drunken politician leaps
Upon the street where mothers weep
And the saviors who are fast asleep,
They wait for you.
And I wait for them to interrupt
Me drinkin' from that broken cup
And ask me to
Open up the gate for you.
I want you, I want you,
I want you so bad,
Honey, I want you. 

Now all my fathers, they've gone down,
True love they've been without it.
But all their daughters put me down
'Cause I don't think about it.

Well, I return to the Queen of Spades
And talk with my chambermaid.
She knows that I'm not afraid
To look at her
She is good to me
And there's nothing she doesn't see.
She knows where I'd like to be
But it doesn't matter.
I want you, I want you,
I want you so bad
Honey, I want you.

Now your dancing child with his Chinese suit,
He spoke to me, I took his flute.
No, I wasn't very cute to him, 
Was I?
But I did it, though, because he lied
Because he took you for a ride
And because tine was on his side
And because I...
I want you,  I want you,
I want you so bad
Honey, I want you.





Jokerman

By Bob Dylan

Standin' on the water casting your bread,
While the eyes of the idol with the iron head are glowing.
Distant ships sailin' into the mist,
You were born with a snake in both of your fists,
While a hurricane was blowing.
Freedom, just around the corner for you.
But with truth so far off, what good would it do?

Jokerman dance to the nightingale's tune.
Bird fly high by the light of the moon.
Oh, oh, oh      Jokerman.

So swiftly the sun sets in the sky,
You rise up and say goodbye to no one.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,
Both of their futures so full of dread,
You don't show one.
Shedding off one more layer of skin.
Keeping one step ahead of the persecutor within.

You're a man of the mountains, you can walk on the clouds,
Manipulator of crowds,
You're a dream twister.
You go to Sodom and Gomorrah, but what do you care?
Ain't nobody there would want to marry your sister.
A friend to the martyr, a friend to the woman of shame.
You look into the fiery furnace - see the rich man without any name.

Well the book of Leviticus and Deuteronomy,
The law of the jungle and the sea,
Are your only teachers.
In the smoke of the twilight --- on a milk-white steed,
Michelangelo indeed could have carved out your features.
Resting in the fields far from the turbulent space.
Half asleep neath the stars with a small dog licking your face.

Well the (mafia?) man stalkin' the sick and the lame,
Preacher man seeks the same,
Who'll get there first is uncertain.
Matchsticks and water cannons --- teargas, padlocks,
Molotav cocktails and rocks,
Behind every curtain.
False-hearted judges dyin' in the webs that they spin.
Only a matter of time til night comes steppin' in.

It's a shadowy world - skies are slippery grey,
A woman just gave birth to a prince today,
And dressed him in scarlet.
He'll put the priest in his pocket - put the blade to the heat,
Take the motherless children off the street,
And place them at the feet of a harlot.
Oh Jokerman you know what he wants.
Oh Jokerman you don't show any response.






JUST LIKE A WOMAN

Bob Dylan               

Nobody feels any pain
Tonight as I stand inside the rain
Everybody knows that baby's got new clothes
But lately I see her ribbons and her bows
Have fallen from her curls

She takes just like a woman, yes she does
She makes love just like a woman, yes she does
And she aches just like a woman
But she breaks just like a little girl.

Queen Mary, she's my friend
Yes, I believe I'll go see her again
Nobody has to guess that baby can't be blessed
Till she sees finally that she's like all the rest
With her fog, her amphetamine and her pearls.

It was rainin' from the first and I was dying there of thirst
So I came in here 
And your longtime curse hurts but what's worse
Is this pain in here, I can't stay in here, 
Ain't it clear

That I just can't fit
Yes, I believe it's time for us to quit
When we meet again introduced as friends
Please don't let on that you knew me when
I was hungry and it was your world.





JUST LIKE TOM THUMB'S BLUES
Bob Dylan
 

When you're lost in the rain, in Juarez, and it's Eastertime too
When your gravity fails, and negativity don't pull you through
Don't put on any airs when you're down on Rue Morgue Avenue
They've got some hungry women there and they'll really make a mess out of you
 
If you see Saint Annie, please tell her thanks a lot
I cannot maove and my fingers, they are all in a knot
I don't have the strength to get up and take another shot
And my best, my doctor, won't even say what it is that I've got
 
Sweet Melinda, the peasants call her the goddess of gloom
She speaks good English, and she invites you up into her room
And you're so kind and careful not to go to her too soon
And she takes your voice, and leaves you howling at the moon
 
Up on housing project hill, it's either fortune or fame
You must pick one or the other, though neither fo them ought to be what they claim
And if you're lookin' to get silly, you better go back to from where you came
Cause the cops don't need you, and man, they expect the same
 
Now all the authorities, they just stand around and boast
How they blackmailed the sergeant at arms into leaving his post
And picking up Angel, who just arrived here from the coast
Who looked so fine at first, but left looking just like a ghost
 
I started out on burgundy, but soon hit the harder stuff
Everybody said they'd stand behind me when the game got rough
But the joke was one me, there was nobody there to even bluff
I'm going back to New York City, I do believe I've had enough
 
 
 

KNOCKIN' ON HEAVEN'S DOOR  

Bob Dylan, 1973


.. Mama take this badge off of me
.. I can't use it any-more
. It's getting dark, too dark for me to see
. I feel I'm knockin on heaven's door___
 
.. Knock, knock, knockin' on heaven's door
.. Knock, knock, knockin' on heaven's door___
.. Knock, knock, knockin' on heaven's door
.. Knock, knock, knockin' on heaven's door___
 
.. Mama put my guns in the ground
.. I can't shoot them any-more
. That long black cloud is comin' down
. I feel I'm knockin' on heaven's door___
 
Oo - oo - oo - oo
 
 

LAY LADY LAY

by Bob Dylan                    

Lay, lady, lay, lay across my big brass bed
Lay, lady, lay, lay across my big brass bed
Whatever colours you have in your mind 
I'll show them to you and you'll see them shine
Lay, lady, lay, lay across my big brass bed

Stay, lady, stay, stay with your man awhile
Until the break of day, let me see you make him smile
His clothes are dirty but his hands are clean
And you're the best thing that he's ever seen
Stay, lady, stay, stay with your man awhile

Why wait any longer for the world to begin
You can have your cake and eat it too
Why wait any longer for the one you love
When he's standing in front of you

Lay, lady, lay, lay across my big brass bed
Stay, lady, stay, stay while the night is still ahead
I long to see you in the morning light
I long to reach for you in the night
Stay, lady, stay, stay while the night is still ahead




LEOPARD-SKIN PILL-BOX HAT
(from Blonde On Blonde, 1966)


Bob Dylan

Well, I see you got your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat
Yes, I see you got your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat
Well, you must tell me, baby
How your head feels under somethin' like that
Under your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat

Well, you look so pretty in it
Honey, can I jump on it sometime?
Yes, I just wanna see
If it's really that expensive kind
You know it balances on your head
Just like a mattress balances on a bottle of wine
Your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat

Well, if you wanna see the sun rise
Honey, I know where
We'll go out and see it sometime
We'll both just sit there and stare
Me with my belt wrapped around my head
And you just sittin' there
In your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat

Well, I asked the doctor if I could see you
It's bad for your health, he said
Yes, I disobeyed his orders
I came to see you but I found him there instead
You know, I don't mind him cheatin' on me
But I sure wish he'd take that off his head
Your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat

Well, I see you got a new boyfriend
You know, I never seen him before
Well, I saw you makin' love with him
You forgot to close the garage door
You might think he loves you for your money
But I know what he really loves you for
It's your brand new leopard-skin pill-box hat





Let Me Die In MY Footsteps, 

(from the Bootleg Series #1)


I will not go down under the ground
'Cause somebody tells me that death's coming 'round
And I will not carry myself down to die
When I go to my grave, my head will be high
Let me die in my footsteps, before I go down under the ground

There's been rumors of war and wars that have been
The meaning of life has been lost in the wind
And some people thinkin' that the end is close by
'Stead of learning to live, they are learning to die
Let me die in my footsteps, before I go down under the ground

I don't know if I'm smart, but I think I can see
When someone is pulling the wool over me
And if this war comes and death's all around
Let me die on this land 'fore I die underground
Let me die in my footsteps, before I go down under the ground

There's always been people that have to cause fear
They've been talkin' about a war now for many long years
I've read all their statements and I've not said a word
But now, Lord God, let my poor voice be heard
Let me die in my footsteps, before I go down under the ground

Let me drink from the waters where the mountain streams flood
Let the smell of wild flowers flow free through my blood
Let me sleep in your meadows with the green grassy leaves
Let me walk down the highway with my brother in peace
Let me die in my footsteps, before I go down under the ground

Go out in your country where the land meets the sun
See the craters and the canyons and where the waterfalls run
Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Idaho
Let every state in this union see deep down in its soul
And you'll die in your footsteps, before you go down under the ground




License To Kill

by Bob Dylan



Man thinks 'cause he rules the earth
He can do with it as he please
And if things don't change soon, he will
Oh, man has invented his doom
First step was touching the moon
Now there's a woman on my block
She just sit there as the night grow still
She say who gonna take away his license to kill

Now, they take him and they teach him
And they groom him for life
And they set him on a path where he's bound to get ill
Then they bury him with stars
Sell his body like they do used cars
Now there's a woman on my block
She just sit there facin' the hill
She say who gonna take away his license to kill

Now, he's hell bent for destruction
He's afraid and confused
And his brain has been mismanaged with great skill
All he believes are his eyes
And his eyes they just tell him lies
But there's a woman on my block
Sitting there in a cold chill
She say who gonna take away his license to kill

May be noisemaker, spirit maker
Heartbreaker, backbreaker
Leave no stone unturned
May be an actor in a plot
That might be all that you got
Till your error you clearly learn

Now he worships at an altar of a stagnant pool
And when he sees his reflection he's fulfilled
Oh, man is opposed to fair play
He wants it all and he wants it his way
Now, there's a woman on my block
She just sit there as the night grow still
She say who gonna take away his license to kill



LIKE A ROLLING STONE

by Bob Dylan
(from Highway 61 Revisited, 1965)            

Once upon a time, you dressed so fine,
Threw the bums a dime, in your prime, didn't you?
People call, say "Beware, doll, you're bound to fall."
You thought they were all kiddin' you.
You used to laugh about         Everybody that was hangin' out,
But now you don't talk so loud, Now you don't seem so proud,
About havin' to be scroungin' your next meal.
How does it feel?               How does it feel.
To be on your own.              With no direction home.   
A complete unknown.             Like a rollin' stone.

You've gone to the finest schools, alright, Miss Lovely,
But you know you only used to get juiced in it.
You never had to live out on the street,
But now you're gonna have to get used to it.
You used to ride on the chrome horse with your diplomat
Who carried on his shoulders a Siamese cat.
Ain't it hard when you discover that
He really wasn't where it's at
After he took from you everything he could steal.

You never turned around to see the frowns
On the jugglers and the clowns when they all did tricks for you.
Never understood that it ain't no good.
You shouldn't let other people get your kicks for you.
You said you'd never compromise
With the Mystery Tramp but now you realize
He's not selling any alibis
As you stare into the vacuum of his eyes
And he says, "Do you want to make a deal?"

Princess on the steeple and all the pretty people
They're all drinkin', thinkin' that they've got it made.
Exchanging all kinds of precious gifts,
You'd better lift your diamond ring, you'd better pawn it babe.
You used to be so amused
At Napolean in rags and the language that he used
Go to him now he calls you you can't refuse
When you got nothin' you got nothin' to lose
Your invisible now you've got no secrets to conceal.






Lovesick

Dylan Bob

I'm Walkin'
Through streets that are dead.
Walkin',
Walkin' with you in my head.
My feet are so tired, my brain is so wired,
And the clouds are weepin'.
Did I
Hear someone tell a lie.
Did I
Hear someone's distant cry.
I spoke like a child, you just struck me with a smile,
While I was sleepin'.
I'm sick of love,
And I'm in the thick of it.
This kind of love,
I'm so sick of it.

Then in the same way:

I see
I see lovers in the meadow.
I see
I see sillouettes in the window.
I watched them 'till they're gone, and they leave me hangin' on,
To a shadow.

I'm sick of love,
I hear the clock tick.
This kind of love,
I'm lovesick.

Sometimes
The silence can be like - thunder.
Sometimes
I wanna take to the road and - plunder.
Could you ever be true, I think of you,
And I wonder.

I'm sick of love,
I wish I never met you.
I'm sick of love,
I'm tryin' to forget you.
Just don't know what to do, I'd give anything to
Be with you.




LOVE MINUS ZERO/NO LIMIT

Bob Dylan
(from Bringing It All Back Home, 1965)


My love, she speaks like silence
Without ideals or violence
She doesn't have to say she's faithful
Yet she's true like ice, like fire
People carry roses
And make promises by the hour
My love she laughs like the flowers
Valentines can't buy her

In the dime stores and bus stations
People talk of situations
Read books, repeat quotations
Draw conclusions on the wall
Some speak of the future
My love, she speaks softly
She knows there's no success like failure
And that failure's no success at all

The cloak and dagger dangles
Madams light the candles
In ceremonies of the horsemen
Even the pawn must hold a grudge
Statues made of matchsticks
Crumble into one another
My love winks she does not bother
She knows too much to argue or to judge

The bridge at midnight trembles
The country doctor rambles
Bankers' nieces seek perfection
Expecting all the gifts that wise men bring
The wind howls like a hammer
The night wind blows cold n' rainy
My love, she's like some raven
At my window with a broken wing



Maggie's Farm

Dylan

I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more
No I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more
Well, I wake up in the morning, hold my hands and pray for rain
I got a head full of ideas that are driving me insane
It's a shame the way she makes me scrub the floor
I-- ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more 

I ain't gonna work for Maggie's brother no more
No I ain't gonna work for Maggie's brother no more 
Well he hands you a nickel, he hands you a dime
He asks you with a grin if you're having a good time
Then he fines you every time you slam the door
I ain't gonna work for Maggie's brother no more 

I ain't gonna work for Maggie's pa no more 
I ain't gonna work for Maggie's pa no more
Well he puts his cigar out in your face just for kicks
His bedroom window, it is made out of bricks
The National Guard stands around his door
I ain't gonna work for Maggie's pa no more

I ain't gonna work for Maggie's ma no more
I ain't gonna work for Maggie's ma no more
Well she talks to all the servants about Man and God and Law
Everybody says she's the brains behind Pa
She's sixty-eight, but she says she's fifty-four
I ain't gonna work for Maggie's ma no more

I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more
I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more
Well I try my best to be just like I am
But everybody wants you to be just like them
They say sing while you slave, but I just get bored
I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more 



Mama, You been On My Mind

Bob Dylan
(From "Bob Dylan the bootleg series, volumes 1-3" recorded 6-9-64)


Perhaps it's the color of the sun cut flat I'm  coverin'
The crossroads I'm standing at
Or maybe it's the weather or something like that
But mama you been on my mind

I don't mean trouble please don't put me down or get
      upset I am not pleading
Or saying I can't forget you
I do not pace the floor bow down and beg but yet
Mama you been on my mind

Even though my eyes are hazy and my thoughts they might be narrow 
      where you been don't bother me
Or bring me down with sorrow
I don't even mind who you'll be waking with tomorrow
Mama you're just on my mind

I'm not asking you to say words like yes or no please understand me
I have no place I'm calling you to go
I'm just whisperin' to myself so I can't pretend that I don't know
Mama you are on my mind

When you wake up in the morning baby look inside your mirror
      you know I won't be next to you
You know I won't be near
I'd just be curious to know if you can see yourself as clear
As someone who has had you on his mind

Man In the Long Black Coat

Bob Dylan

Crickets are chirpin' the water is high
There's a soft cotton dress? on the line hangin' dry
Windows wide open African trees
Bent over backwards from a hurricane breeze
Not a word, a goodbye, not even a note
She gone with the man in the long black coat

Somebody singing hangin' around
At the old dance hall on the outskirts of  town
He looked into her eyes when she stopped him to ask
If he wanted to dance he had a face like a mask
Somebody said, from the Bible he quote
There was dust on the man in the long black coat

Preacher was talkin' there's a sermon he gave
He said every man's conscience is vile and depraved
You cannot depend on him to be your guide
And it's you who must keep it satisfied
It ain't easy to swallow, it sticks in the throat
To give her heart to the man in the long black coat

There are no mistakes in life some people say
And it's true sometimes you can see it that way
People don't live or die, people just float
She went with the man in the long black coat

There's smoke on the water its been there since June
Tree trunks uprooted neath the high passing moon
Feel the pulse and vibrations and the rumblin' force
Somebody is out there beating on a dead horse
She never said nothin', there was nothin' she wrote
She went with the man in the long black coat



Masters of War

Bob Dylan
(FROM: Blood on the Tracks, 1975)               


Come you masters of war
You that build the big guns
You that build the death planes
You that build all the bombs
You that hide behind walls
You that hide behind desks
I just want you to know I can see through your masks

You that never have done nothin' but build to destroy
You play with my world like it's your little toy
You put a gun in my hand then you hide from my eyes
Then you turn and run farther when the fast bullets fly

Like Judas of old you lie and deceive
A world war can't be won, and you want me to believe
But I see through your eyes and I see through your brain
Like I see through the water that runs down my drain

You that fasten all the triggers for the others to fire
Then you sit back and watch while the death count gets
higher
You hide in your mansions while the young people's blood
Flows out of their bodies and gets buried in the mud

You've thrown the worst fear that can ever be hurled
Fear to bring children into the world
For threatening my baby, unborn and unnamed
You ain't worth the blood that runs in your veins

How much do I know to talk out of turn
You might say that I'm young, you might say I'm unlearned
But there's one thing I know, though I'm younger than you
Even Jesus would never forgive what you do

Let me ask you one question:  is your money that good?
Will it buy you forgiveness?  Do you think that it could?
I think you will find when your death takes its toll
All the money you made won't ever buy back your soul

And I hope that you die and your death will come soon
I'll follow your casket through the pale afternoon
And I'll watch while you're lowered into your death bed
Then I'll stand over your grave till I'm sure that you're
dead







MOONSHINER

Bob Dylan
(originally done around 1963 as a cover, this was released
on the Bootleg Series, 1-3)


I've been a moonshiner for seventeen long years
I've spent all my money on whiskey and beer
I go to some hollow and set up my still
And if whiskey don't kill me
Then I don't know what will

I go to some barroom and drink with my friends
When the women can't follow and see what I spent
God bless them pretty women
How I wish they was mine
Their breath is as sweet as
The dew on the vine

Let me eat when I'm hungry
Let me drink when I'm dry
Give me dollar when I'm hard up
Religion when I die
The whole world's a bottle
And life's just a dram
When a bottle gets empty
It sure ain't worth a damn







Most Likely You Go Your Way and I'll Go Mine

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)


You say you love me And you're thinkin' of me, But you know you could be wrong.
You say you told me That you wanna hold me, But you know you're not that strong.
I just can't do what I done before,  I just can't beg you anymore.
I'm gonna let you pass
And I'll go last.
Then time will tell just who fell And who's been left behind,
When you go yor way and I go mine.

You say you disturb me And you don't deserve me, But you know sometimes you lie.
You say you're shakin' And you're always achin', But you know how hard you try.
Sometimes it gets so hard to care,  It can't be this way ev'ry-where.
And I'm gonna let you pass,
Yes, and I'll go last.
Then time will tell just who fell And who's been left behind,
When you go yor way and I go mine.
The judge, he holds a grudge, He's gonna call on you.
But he's badly built And he walks on stilts, Watch out he don't fall on you.

You say you're sorry For tellin' stories That you know I believe are true.
You say ya got some Other kinda lover And yes, I believe you do.
You say my kisses are not like his, But this time I'm gonna tell you why that is.
I'm just gonna let you pass,
Yes, and I'll go last.
Then time will tell      who fell And who's been left behind,
When you go yor way and I go mine.







Most of the Time 
	
by Bob Dylan
(from -Oh Mercy-)



Most of the time, I'm okay, focused all around
Most of the time, I can keep both feet on the ground
I can follow the path
I can read the sign
Stay right with it
When the road unwinds
I can handle whatever I stumble upon
I don~t even notice, she gone
Most of the time

Most of the time, it's well understood
Most of the time, I wouldn't change it if I could
I can make it all magic
I can hold my own
I can deal with this situation
Right down to the bone
I can survive and I can endure
And I don't even think about her
Most of the time

Most of the time, my head is on straight
Most of the time, I'm strong enough not to hate
I don't build up illusion
Til it makes me sick
I ain't afraid of confusion
No matter how thick
I can smile in the face of mankind
Don't even remember what her lips felt like on mine
Most of the time

Most of the time
She ain't even in my mind
I wouldn't know if I saw her
She's that far behind
Most of the time
I can't even be sure
If she was ever with me
Or if I was ever with her

Most of the time, I'm half ways content
Most of the time, I know exactly where it all went
I don't cheat on myself
I don't run and hide
Hide from the feelings
That are buried inside
I don't compromise and I don't pretend
I don't even care if I ever see her again
Most of the time




MR. TAMBOURINE MAN

Bob Dylan
(from Bringing It All Back Home, 1965)              

Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man, play a song for me
I'm not sleepy and there ain't no place I'm going to
Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man, play a song for me
In the jingle jangle morning I'll come following you

Though I know that evenings empire has returned into sand
Vanished from my hand
Left me blindly here to stand but still not sleeping
My weariness amazes me, I'm branded on my feet
I have no one to meet
And the ancient empty street's too dead for dreaming 

Take me on a trip upon your magic swirling ship
My senses have been stripped
My hands can't feel to grip
My toes too numb to step
Wait only for my bootheels to be wandering
I'm ready to go anywhere, I'm ready for to fade
Into my own parade
Cast your dancing spell my way, I promise to go under it

Though you might hear laughing, spinning, swinging madly across the sun
It's not aimed at anyone
It's just escaping on the run
And but for the sky there are no fences facing
And if you hear vague traces of skipping reels of rhyme
To your tambourine in time
It's just a ragged clown behind
I wouldn't pay it any mind
It's just a shadow you're seeing that he's chasing 

Take me disappearing through the smoke rings of my mind
Down the foggy ruins of time
Far past the frozen leaves
The haunted frightened trees
Out to the windy bench
Far from the twisted reach of crazy sorrow
Yes to dance beneath the diamond sky with one hand waving free
Silhouetted by the sea
Circled by the circus sands
With all memory and fate driven deep beneath the waves
Let me forget about today until tomorrow 






MY BACK PAGES

Bob Dylan
ANOTHER SIDE OF BOB DYLAN


Crimson flames tied through my ears
Rollin' high and mighty traps...
Pounced with fire on flaming roads
Using i-deas as my maps...
"We'll meet on edges, soon said," I,
Proud 'neath heated brow...
Ah, but I was so much older then
I'm young-er than that now.

Half-wracked prejudice leaped forth,
"Rip down all hate," I screamed,
Lies that life is black and white
Spoke from my skull I dreamed.
Romantic facts of musketeers
Foundationed deep, somehow,
Ah, but I was so much older then,
I'm younger than that now.

Girl's faces formed the forward path
>From phony jealousy,
To memorizing politics
Of ancient history.
Flung down by corpse evangelist
Unthought of, though, somehow,
Ah, but I was so much older then,
I'm younger than that now.

A self-ordained professor's tongue
Too serious to fool
Spouted out that liberty
Is just equality in school.
"Equality," I spoke the word
As if a wedding vow
Ah, but I was so much older then,
I'm younger than that now.

In a soldier's stance I aimed my hand
At the mongrel dogs who teach
Fearing not that I'd become my enemy
In the instant that I preach.
My pathway led by confusion boats
Mutiny from stern to bow
Ah, but I was so much older then,
I'm younger than that now.

Yes, my guards stood hard when abstract threats
Too noble to neglect
Deceived me into thinking
I had something to protect.
Good and bad, I define these terms
Quite clear, no doubt, somehow,
Ah, but I was so much older then,
I'm younger than that now.


MY BACK PAGES           

B.Dylan
(from 30th Anniversary)

Crimson flames run through my years, flowing high & mighty trapped
Countless fire and flaming rope, using ideas as my map
We'll meet our own edges soon said I, proud me beaded brow

Ah but I was so much older then
I'm younger than that now.

(Tom Petty sings):

Half ripe prejudice leapt forth, rip down all hate I scream
Lies that life is black and white, spoke from my skull I dreamed
Romantic flanks of musketeers, foundation deep somehow

(Neil Young sings, same chords as before):

Girl's faces formed the forward path from phony jealousy,
To memorizing politics Of ancient history.
Flung down by corpse evangelist Unthought of, though,somehow,

(Eric steps forward and sings his verse):

A self-ordained professor's tongue too serious to fool
Spouted out that liberty is just equality in school.
"Equality," I spoke the word as if a wedding vow

(Dylan croacks his verse on stage but on the disk he mysteriously sounds
fine):
          
In a soldiers stance I aim my hand at the mongrel dogs who teach     
During night I become my enemy in the instant that I preach    
My existance fled by confusion boats, mutiny from stern to bow
 
(George Harrison):
 
The guard stood hard when abstract prints too nobel to neglect
Deceived me into thinking, I had something to protect
Good and bad I define these terms, why clear, no doubt, somehow.

(Neil Young's guitar solo)
 
If there's a demand I'll tab the second solo too, although it
is quite simple.



NEW MORNING

Bob Dylan
(from New Morning, 1970)


Can't you hear that rooster crowin'?
Rabbit runnin' down across the road
Underneath the bridge where the water flowed through

So happy just to see you smile
Underneath the sky of blue
On this new morning, new morning
On this new morning with you

Can't you hear that motor turnin'? 
Automobile comin' into style 
Comin' down the road for a country mile or two 


The night passed away so quickly 
It always does when you're with me

Can't you feel that sun a shinin'? 
Ground hog runnin' by the country stream 
This must be the day that all of my dreams come true 
New morning . . .






NOBODY 'CEPT YOU

Bob Dylan
(originally done around the time of Planet Waves, 1973.  Finally 
released in The Bootleg Series, 1-3)


There's nothing 'round here to me that's sacred
'Cept you, yeah you
There's nothing 'round here to me that matters
'Cept you, yeah you

You're the one that reaches me
You're the one that I admire
Every time we meet together
I feel like I'm on fire
Nothing matters to me
And there's nothing I desire
'Cept you, yeah you

Nothing 'round here I care to try for, 'cept you, yeah you
Got nothing here to live or die for, except you, yeah you

There's a hymn I used to hear
In the churches all the time
Make me feel so good inside
So peaceful, so sublime
And there's nothing that reminds me of that
Old familiar chime, except you, yeah you

Used to run in the cemetery
Dance and run and sing but I was a child
And it never seemed strange
But now I just pass mournfully
By that place where bones of life are piled
I know somethin' has changed 

I'm a stranger here and no one sees me, except you, yeah you
Nothing any more seems to please me,except you, yeah you

Nothing hypnotizes me
Or holds me in a spell
Everything runs by me
Just like water from a well
Everybody wants my attention
Everybody's got something to sell
Except you, yeah you
I'm in love with you!






North Country Blues



Come and gather round friends and I'll tell you a tale
Of when the red iron ore pits run a-plenty     
But the cardboard filled windows and old men on the benches
Tell ya now that the whole town is empty

In the north end of town my own children are grown
But I was raised on the other
In the wee hours of youth my mother took sick
And I was brought up by my brother 

The iron ore poured as the years passed the door
The drag lines and shovels, they was hummin'
'Til one day my brother failed to come home
The same as my father before him 

With a long winters wait from the window I watched
My friends, they couldn't have been kinder
And my school it was cut as I quit in the spring
To marry John Thomas, a miner
 
Oh the years passed again and the giving was good
With a lunch bucket filled every season
But with three babies born, the work was cut down
To half a day's shift with no reason

An' the shaft was soon shut and my work was cut
And the fire in the air, it felt frozen
'Til a man come to speak and he said in one week
That number eleven was closing

They complain in the east they payin' to high
They say that your ore ain't worth diggin'
That it's much cheaper down in the South American towns
Where the miners work almost for nothin'

So the minin' gates locked and the red iron rotted
And the room smelled heavy from drinkin'
When the sad silent song made the hour twice as long
As I waited for the sun to go sinking

I lived by the window as he talked to himself
The silence of tongues, it was building
'Til one morning's wake, the bed it was bare
And I's left alone with three children

The summer is gone, the ground's turning cold
The stores one by one they are folding
My children will go as soon as they grow
For there ain't nothin' here now to hold them




OBVIOUSLY FIVE BELIEVERS

Bob Dylan
(from Blonde on Blonde, 1966)


Early in the mornin', early in the mornin'
I'm callin' you to, I'm callin' you to
Please come home
Yes, I guess I could make it without you
If I just didn't feel so all alone

Don't let me down ,don't let me down
I won't let you down, I won't let you down
No I won't
You know I can if you can, honey
But honey, please don't

I got my black dog barkin', black dog barkin'
Yes it is now, yes it is now
Outside my yard
Yes, I could tell you what he means
If I just didn't have to try so hard

Your mama's workin',your mama's moanin'
She's cryin' you know, she's tryin' you know
You better go now
Well, I'd tell you what she wants if I
But I just don't know how

Fifteen jugglers, fifteen jugglers
Five believers, five believers
All dressed like men
Tell your mama not to worry because
Yes they're just my friends

Early in the mornin', early in the mornin'
I'm callin' you to, I'm callin' you to
Please come home
Yes, I could make it without you honey
If I just did not feel so all alone





Oh Sister

words and music by Bob Dylan & Jacques Levy



Oh sister when I come, to ly in your arms.
You should not treat me like a stranger.
Our father would not like the way that you act,
And you must realize the danger.

Oh sister am I not a brother to you.
And one deserving of affection.
And is our purpose not the same on this earth,
To love and follow his direction.

We grew up together from the cradle to the grave.
We died and were reborn and left mysteriously saved
Oh sister when I come to knock on your door
Don't turn away, you'll create sorrow.

Time is an ocean, but it ends at the shore.
You may not see me tomorrow.





One More Cup of Coffee

Bob Dylan and Jacques Levy

Your Breath is sweet, your eyes are like
Two jewels in the sky
Your back is straight your hair is smooth
On the pillow where you lie.
But I don't sense affection
No gratitude or love.
Your loyalty is not me but to the stars above

One more cup of coffee for the road.
One more cup of coffee for I go,
To the valley below.

Your daddy he's an outlaw
And a wanderer by trade.
He'll teach you how to pick an choose
And how to throw the blade.
And he oversees his kingdom
So no stranger does intrude.
His voice it trembles as he calls out
For another plate of food

Your sister sees the future
Like your momma and yourself.
You've never learned to read or write
There's no books upon your shelf.
And your pleasure know no limits
Your voice is like a meadow larks.
But your heart is like an ocean
Mysterious and dark.




One of Us Must Know

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)


I didn't mean            to treat you so          bad
You shouldn't take it so  personal
I didn't mean                   to make you so        sad
You just happened to be there, that's all
When I saw you say "goodbye"  to my friend and smile
I thought that it was well understood
That you'd be comin' back in a little while
I didn't know that you were sayin' "goodbye" for good

But, sooner or later, one of us must know
You just did what you're supposed to do
Sooner or later, one of us must know
That I really did try to get close to you

I couldn't see what you could show me
Your scarf had kept your mouth well hid
I couldn't see how you could know me
But you said you knew me and I believed you did
When you whispered in my ear
And asked me if I was leavin' with you or her
I didn't realize just what I did hear
I didn't realize how young you were

I couldn't see when it started snowin'
Your voice was all that I heard
I couldn't see where we were goin'
But you said you knew an' I took your word
And then you told me later, as I apologized
That you were just kiddin' me, you weren't really from the farm
An' I told you, as you clawed out my eyes
That I never really meant to do you any harm



PERCY'S SONG

by Bob Dylan

Bad news, bad news, come to me where I sleep,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Sayin' one of your friends is in trouble deep,
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Tell me, the trouble tell once to my ear,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Joliet prison and ninety-nine years.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Oh what's the charge of how this came to be,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Manslaughter in the highest of degree.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

I sat down and wrote the best words I could write,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Explaining to the judge I'd be there on Wednesday night.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Without a reply I left by the moon,
Turn, turn, turn again,
And was in his chambers by the next afternoon.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Could ya tell me the facts?  I said without fear,
Turn, turn, turn again,
That a friend of mine would get ninety-nine years.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

A crash on the highway flew the car to a field,
Turn, turn, turn again,
There was four persons killed and he was at the wheel.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.
 
But I knew him as good as I'm knowin' myself,
Turn, turn, turn again,
And he wouldn't harm a life that belonged to someone else.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

The judge spoke out of the side of his mouth,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Sayin' the witness who saw he left little doubt.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

That may be true he's got a sentence to serve,
Turn, turn, turn again,
But ninety-nine years he just don't deserve.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Too late, too late for his case it is sealed
Turn, turn, turn again,
His sentence is passed and it cannot be repealed.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

But he ain't no criminal and his crime it is none,
Turn, turn, turn again,
What happened to him could happen to anyone.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

And at that the judge jerked forward and his face it did freeze,
Turn, turn, turn again,
Sayin' "Could you kindly leave my office now, please."
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

Well his eyes looked funny and I stood up so slow,
Turn, turn, turn again,
With no other choice except but for to go.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

I walked down the hallway and I heard his door slam,
Turn, turn, turn again,
I walked down the courthouse stairs and I could not understand.
Turn, turn to the rain and the wind.

And I played my guitar through the night to the day,
Turn, turn, turn again,
And the only tune my guitar could play
Was "Old cruel rain and the wind."

Positively 4th Street

Dylan

You got a lotta nerve to say you are my friend
When I was down you just stood there grinning
You got a lotta nerve to say you got a helping hand 
You just want to be on the side that's winning
 
You say I let you down you know it's not like that
If you're so hurt why then don't you show it
You say you lost your faith but that's not where it's at
You had no faith to lose and you know it
 
I know the reason that you talk behind my back
I used to be among the crowd you're in with
Do you take me for such a fool to think I'd make contact
With the one who tries to hide what he don't know to begin with
 
You see me on the street you always act surprised
You say, "How are you?" "Good luck" but you don't mean it
When you know as well as me you'd rather see me paralyzed
Why don't you just come out once and scream it
 
No, I do not feel that good when I see the heartbreaks you embrace
If I was a master thief perhaps I'd rob them
And now I know you're dissatisfied with your position and your place
Don't you understand it's not my problem
 
I wish that for just one time you could stand inside my shoes
And just for that one moment I could be you
Yes, I wish that for just one time you could stand inside my shoes
You'd know what a drag it is to see you





QUEEN JANE APPROXIMATELY

Bob Dylan

When your mother sends back all of your invitations
And your father to your sister, he explains
That you're tired of yourself and all of your creations
Won't you come see me Queen Jane
Won't you come see me Queen Jane

Now when all of the flower ladies want back what they have lent you
And the smell of their roses does not remain
And all of your children start to resent you
Won't you come see me Queen Jane
Won't you come see me Queen Jane

Now when all the clowns that you have commissioned
Have died in battle or in vain
And you're sick of all this repetition
Won't you come see me Queen Jane
Won't you come see me Queen Jane

When all of your advisors heave their plastic
At your feet to convince you of your pain
Trying to prove that your conclusions should be more drastic
Won't you come see me Queen Jane
Won't you come see me Queen Jane

Now when all the other bandits that you turned the other cheek to
All lay down their bandanas and complain
And you want somebody you don't have to speak to
Won't you come see me Queen Jane
Won't you come see me Queen Jane




"Rainy Day Women #12 & 35" 

by Bob Dylan 
(from "Blonde on Blonde")


They'll stone you when you're tryin to be so good
They'll stone you just like they said they would
They'll stone you when you're tryin to go home
They'll stone you when you're there all alone
But I would not feel so all alone
Everybody must get stoned





Rambling, Gambing Willie

Bob Dylan

Come round you rovin gamblers there's a story I will tell
About the greatest gambler you all should know him well
His name was Willie O'Connelly and he gambled all his life
He's had 27 children yet he's never had a wife

And it's ride Willie ride, roll Willie roll,
Where ever you're a gamblin' now nobody knows

Well he gambled in the white house and in the railroad yards
Where ever there was people there was Willie and his cards
He had the reputation as the gamblinest man around
Wives would keep their husbands home when Willie came town

Sailin down the Mississippi to a town called New Orleans
They're still talkin about that card game on that Jackson Queen
I've come to win some money, gamblin Willie says
When the game finally ended up, the whole darn boat was his

Up in the Rocky Mountains in a town called Cripple Creek
There was an old poker game lasted about a week
900 miners had laid their money down
When Willie finally left the room he owned the whole darn town.

Well Willie had a heart of gold and this I know is true
He supported all his children and all their mothers too
He wore no wings and fancy things that other gamblers wore
He spread his money far and wide to help the sick and poor

When you played your cards with Willie you never really knew
Whether he was bluffin or whether he was true
He won a fortune from a man who folded in his chair
The man he left a diamond flush Willie didn't even have a pair

It was late one evening during a poker game
A man lost all his money said Willie was to blame
He shot poor Willie through the head which was a tragic fate
Willie's cards fell on the floor they were aces backed with eights

So all you ramblin gamblers where ever you might be
The moral of the story is very plain to see
Make your money while you can before you have to stop
Cause when you pull that dead man's hand your gamblin days are up.

RESTLESS FAREWELL

Bob Dylan 
(from the album The Times They Are A-Changin')

Oh all the money that in my whole life I did spend
Be it mine right or wrongfully
I'd let it slip gladly to my friends
To tie up the time most forcefully
But the bottles are done, we've killed each one
And the table is full and overflowed
And the corner sign says it's closing time
So I'll bid farewell and be down the road

Oh every girl that ever I've touched 
I did not do it harmfully
And every girl that ever I've hurt
I did not do it knowingly
But to remain as friends, you need the time
To make amends and stay behind
And since my feet are now fast
And point away from the past
I'll bid farewell and be down the line

Oh every foe that ever I faced
The cause was there before we came
And every cause that ever I fought
I fought it full without regret or shame
But the dark does die as the curtain is drawn
And somebody's eyes must meet the dawn
And if I see the day I'd only have to stay
So I'll bid farewell in the night and be gone

Oh every thought that strung a knot in my mind
I might go insane if it couldn't be sprung
But it's not to stand naked under unknown (unknowin'?) eyes
It's for myself and my friends my stories are sung
But the time ain't tall if on time you depend
And no word is possessed by no special friend
And though the line is cut it ain't quite the end
I'll just bid farewell till we meet again

Oh a false clock tries to tick out my time
To disgrace, distract and bother me
And the dirt of gossip blows into my face
And the dust of rumors covers me
But if the arrow is straight and the point is slick
It can pierce through the dust no matter how thick
So I'll make my stand and remain as I am
And bid farewell and not give a damn

Sad-Eyed Lady of the Lowlands

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)


With your mercury mouth in the missionary times,
And your eyes like smoke and your prayers like rhymes,
And your silver cross, and your voice like chimes,
Oh, who among them do they think could bury you?
With your pockets well protected at last,
And your streetcar visions which you place on the grass,
And your flesh like silk, and your face like glass,
Who among them do they think could carry you?

Sad eyed lady of the lowlands,
Where the sad eyed prophet says that no man comes,
My warehouse eyes, my Arabian drums,
Should I leave them by your gate,
Or sad eyed lady, should I wait?

With your sheets like metal and your belt like lace,
And your deck of cards missing the jack and the ace,
And your basement clothes and your hollow face,
Who among them can think he could outguess you?
With your sillouette when the sunlight dims
Into your eyes where the moonlight swims,
And your match-book songs and your gypsy hymns,
Who among them would try to impress you?

The kings of Tyrus with their convict list
Are waiting in line for their geranium kiss,
And you wouldn't know it would happen like this,
But who among them really wants just to kiss you?
With your childhood flames on your midnight rug,
And your Spanish manners and your mother's drugs,
And your cowboy mouth and your curfew plugs,
Who among them do you think could resist you?

Oh, the farmers and the businessmen, they all did decide
To show you the dead angels that they used to hide.
But why did they pick you to sympathize with their side?
Oh, how could they ever mistake you?
They wished you'd accepted the blame for the farm,
But with the sea at your feet and the phony false alarm,
And with the child of a hoodlum wrapped up in your arms,
How could they ever, ever persuade you?

With your sheet metal memory of Cannery Row,
And your magazine-husband who one day just had to go,
And your gentleness now, which you just can't help but show,
Who among them do you think would employ you?
Now you stand with your thief, you're on his parole
With your holy medallion which your fingertips fold,
And your saintlike face and your ghostlike soul,
Oh, who among them do you think could destroy you?




Santa Fe, 

(off the bootleg series #2)


Santa Fe
Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear Santa Fe
My woman kneels every day
She promises to let me stay
She's ropin' up a knot to pray to light the way
She's in.. 

Santa Fe
Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear Santa Fe
Now she'll open up to let me home
she crys but she needs to roam
She's warpin up a happy home
She thinks every day will be warm in Santa Fe

Santa Fe
Dear, dear, dear, dear Santa Fe
Dishonor never needs to roam
And never never far from home
I'll never ever ever roam to sail away

She's all feel bad
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no don't feel bad
She's the worst thing he's ever had
And the mad man, he's so glad
His older brother had it bad
His aunt made me feel so bad I went away

Santa Fe
Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear Santa Fe
My home hearts in L.A.
I won't have a day to wait
And I'm planning every day to run away
From the Santa Fe

Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear Santa Fe
My woman's never sittin' at home
She's packin' a valise unknown
She crying like I need been stone
She leavin that under and roam
But she ain't gonna find her room
and the tears send her on her own every day.



Sara

Bob Dylan
('Desire' album)


I laid on a dune  I looked at the sky  When the children were babies  And played on the beach
You came up to behind me  I saw you go by   You were always so close  and still within' reach
Sara,  Sara
Whatever made you want to change you mind
Sara,  Sara
So easy to look at, so hard to define.

I can syill see them playin'
With their pails in the sand
They run to the water
Their buckets to fill
I can still see the shells
Fallin' out of their hands
As they follow each other
Back up the hill
Sara, Sara
Sweet virgin angel, sweet love of my life
Sara, Sara
Radiant jewel, mystical wife

Sleepin' in the woods
By a fire in the night
Drinkin' white rum
In a Portugal bar
Them playin' leap-frog
And hearin' about Snow White
You in the market place
In Savanna-la-Mar
Sara, Sara
It's all so clear, I could never forget
Sara, Sara
Lovin' you is the one thing I'll never regret

I can still hear the sounds
Of those Methodist bells
I'd taken the cure
And had just gotten through
Stayin' up for days
In the Chelsea Hotel
Writin' "Sad-Eyed Lady
Of the Lowlands" for you
Sara, Sara
Wherever we travel we're never apart
Sara, oh Sara
Beautiful lady, so dear to my heart

How did I meet you
I don't know
A messenger sent me
In a tropical storm
You were there in the winter
Moonlight on the snow
And on Lily Pond Lane
When the weather was warm
Sara, oh Sara
Scorpio Sphinx in a calico dress
Sara, Sara
You must forgive me my unworthiness

Now the beach is deserted
Except for some kelp
And a peice of an old ship
That lies on the shore
You always responded
When I needed your help
You gimme a map
And a key to your door
Sara, oh Sara
Glamorous nymph with an arrow and bow
Sara, oh Sara
Don't ever leave me, don't ever go



SENOR 

by Bob Dylan
(Tales of Yankee Power) 


Senor,
Senor,
Can you tell me where we heading?
Lincoln County Road or Armageddon?
Seems like I been down this way before
Is there any truth in that, Senor?

Senor,
Senor,
Do you know where she's hiding?
How long are we gonna be riding?
How long must I keep my eyes glued to the door?
Will there be any comfort here, Senor?

There's a wicked wind still blowing on that upper deck
There's an iron cross still hanging down from around her neck
There's a marching band still playing in their vacant lot
Where she held me in her arms one time and said -forget what we got-

Senor,
Senor,
I can see the painted wagon
Smell the tail of a dragon
Can't stand the suspense anymore
Can you tell me who to contact here, Senor?

Well the last thing I remember before they stripped and kneeled
Was a train load of fools born down in a Maganatic(?) field
The gypsy, where he broke a pike and a flashing ring
He say, -Son this ain't a dream no more, it's the real thing-

Senor,
Senor,
You know their hearts here are hard as leather
Well give me a minute, let me get it together
Just gotta pick myself up off the floor
I'm ready when you are, Senor?

Senor,
Senor,
Let's overturn these tables
Disconnect these cables
This place don't make sense to me no more
Can you tell me what we're waiting for, Senor?



SERIES OF DREAMS

Bob Dylan
FROM: The Bootleg Series 1-3, this song recorded 1989.


I was thinkin' of a series of dreams
Where nothing comes up to the top
Everything stays down where it's wounded
And comes to a permanent stop
asn't thinking of anything specific
Like in a dream when someone wakes up and screams
Nothing too very scientific
Just thinkin' of a series of dreams

Thinkin' of a series of dreams
Where the time and the tempo drag   (fly)*
And there's no exit in any direction
Except the one that you can't see with your eyes
Wasn't makin' and great connection
Wasn't fallin' for any intricate scheme
Nothing that would pass inspection
I's just thinkin' of a series of dreams

Dreams where the umbrella is folded
And into the path you are hurled
And the cards are no good that you're holdin'
Unless they're from another world

In one, the surface was frozen
In another, I witnessed a crime
In one, I was running, and in another
All I seemed to be doing was climb
Wasn't lookin' for any special assistance
Not going through any great extremes
I'd already gone the distance
Just thinkin' of a series of dreams

I'd already gone the distance
Just thinkin' of a series of dreams
Just thinkin' of a series of dreams
Just thinkin' of a series of dreams



* NOTE: I saw one version of lyrics that had "fly" instead of "drag".  Fly 
would make it rhyme, but Dylan obviously says drag.

SEVEN CURSES

Bob Dylan
(off of the Bootleg Series)
 

Old Reilly stole a stallion                
And they caught him and brought him back                    
And they laid him down in the jail house ground      
With an iron chain a round his neck
                                                            
When Reilly's daughter got a message
That her father was going to hang
She rode by night and came by morning
With gold and silver in her hand
 
Whe the judge saw Reilly's daughter
His old eyes deepened in his head
Saying "Gold will never free your father;
The price, my dear, is you instead"
 
"Oh, I'm as good as dead" cried Reilly
"It's only you that he does crave
And my skin will surely crawl if he touches you at all
Get on your horse and ride away"
 
"Oh, father you will surely die
If I don't take a chance to try
And pay the price and not take your advice
For that reason I will have to stay"
 
The gallow's shadown took the evening
In the night the hound dog bayed
In the night the ground was groaning
In the night the price was paid
 
The next morning whe had awoken
To find that the judge had never spoken
She saw the branch a-bending
She saw her father's body broken
 
These be seven curses on a judge so cruel
That one doctor cannot save him
At two, healers can't heal him
And at three eyes cannot see him
 
At four, ears cannot hear him
At five, walls cannot hide him
At six, beggars cannot buy him
And at seven, death shall never kill him



Seven Days 

Dylan Version



seven days , seven long days she'll be comin'
I'll be waitin' at the station
for her to arrive
seven long days, all I gotta do is survive   

She been gone, ever since I been a child, 
ever since I seen her smile
I've never forgotten her eyes
She had a face that outshined the sun and the sky

I've been good, i've been good while i've  been waitin' 
forgive for hesitating, 
but i've been hangin on
seven more days and all that will be gone

there's kissin' in the alley, theiving in the alley
fightin' every inch of the way
trying to get a lead on, providing the feat on
the nights are always sadder than the days

seven days , seven days the wind is knowin'
the whistle will be blowin'
and I know she'll be coming for
my beautifull comrade from the north.



Shelter From the Storm

By Bob Dylan

'Twas in another life time,
One of toil and blood.
When blackness was a virtue
And the road was full of mud.

I came in from the wilderness,
A creature void of form.
"Come in" she said,
"I'll give you,
Shelter from the storm."

And if I pass this way again,
You can rest assured,
I'll always do my best for her
On that I give my word.
In a world of steel eyed death and men
Who are fighting to be warm,
Come in she said,
I'll give you 
Shelter from the storm.

Not a word was spoke between us.
There was little risk involved.
everything up to that point,
Had been left unresolved.
Try imagining a place
Where it's always safe and warm
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm.

I was burned out from exhaustion
I was buried in the hail.
Poisoned in the bushes
An' blown out on the trail
Hunted like a crocodile,
Ravaged in the corn
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm

Suddenly I turned around
And she was standing there
With silver bracelets on her wrists
And flowers in her hair.
She walked up to me so gracefully
And took my crown of thorns
Come in she said
I'll give you,
Shelter from the storm.

Now there's a wall between us 
Something has been lost.
I took too much for granted
I got my signals crossed
Just to think that all began
On an uneventfull morn
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm

Well the deputy walks on hard nails
And the preacher rides a mount
But nothing really matters
It's doom alone that counts
And the one-eyed undertaker
He blows a futile horn
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm

I've heard newborn babies wailin'
Like a mornin' dove
And old men with broken teeth
Stranded without love.
Do I understand your question, man
Is it hopeless and forlorn.
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm.

In a little hill top village
I gambled for my clothes
I bargained for salvation
And they gave me a leathal dose.
I offered up my innocence
And got repaid with scorn
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm

Well I'm livin' in a foreign country
But I'm bound to cross the line.
Beauty walk a razors edge,
Someday I'll make it mine.
If I could only turn the clock back
To when God and her were born
Come in she said
I'll give you
Shelter from the storm.




She Belongs to Me

Bob Dylan/Grateful Dead

she got everything she needs, she's an artist, she don't look back
she got everything she needs, she's an artist, she don't look back
she can take the dark out of the night time    
paint the daytime black

you'll start out standing, vow to steal her anything she sees
you'll start out standing, vow to steal her anything she sees
you'll wind up begin to a keyo down upon your knees

she never stumbles, got no place to fall
she never stumbles, got no place to fall
she's nobody's child, lord can't touch her at all

she wears an egyptian ring, sparkles before she speaks
she wears an egyptian ring, sparkles before she speaks
she's a hypnotist collector, you are a walking antique

bow down to her on sunday, salute her when her birthday comes
bow down to her on sunday, salute her when her birthday comes
for halloween give her a trumpet, for christmas, give her a drum







SIGN LANGUAGE  

by Bob Dylan


You speak to me in sign language,
As I'm eating a sandwich in a small cafe
At a quarter to three. 

But I can't respond to your sign language.
You're taking advantage, bringing me down.
Can't you make any sound? 

'Twas there by the bakery, surrounded by fakery.
This is my story, still I'm still there.
Does she know I still care? 

Link Wray was playing on a jukebox, I was paying
For the words I was saying, so misunderstood.
He didn't do me no good.

 

SIGN ON THE WINDOW

Bob Dylan
(from New Morning, 1970)

Sign on the window says "lonely"
Sign on the door said "no company allowed"
Sign on the street says "y' don't own me"
Sign on the porch says "three's a crowd"
Sign on the porch says "three's a crowd"

Her and her boyfriend went to California
Her and her boyfriend done changed their tune
My best friend said "now didn't I warn ya
Brighton girls are like the moon
Brighton girls are like the moon"

Looks like a-nothing but the rain
Sure gonna be wet tonight on main street
Hope that it don't sleet

Build me a cabin in Utah
Marry me a wife, catch rainbow trout
Have a bunch of kids who call me "Pa"
That must be what it's all about
That must be what it's all about






SIMPLE TWIST OF FATE

Bob Dylan

They sat together in the park
As the evening sky grew dark
She looked at him and he felt a spark
Tingle to his bones
'Twas then he felt alone
And wished that he'd gone straight
And watched out for a simple twist of fate

They walked along the old canal
A little confused, I remember well
And stopped into a strange hotel
With the neon burning bright
He felt the heat of the night
Hit him like a freight
Train moving with a simple twist of fate

A saxaphone someplace far off played
As she was walking down by the arcade
As the light burst through a beat up shade
Where he was waking up
She dropped a coin into the cup
Of a blind man at the gate
And forgot about a simple twist of fate

He woke up, the room was bare
He didn't see her anywhere
He told himself he didn't care
Pushed the window open wide
Felt an emptiness inside
To which he just could not relate
Brought on by his simple twist of fate

He hears the ticking of the clocks
And walks along with a parrot that talks
Hunts her down by the waterfront docks
Were the saliors all come in
Maybe she'll pick him out again
How long must he wait?
One more time for his simple twist of fate

People tell me its a sin
To know and feel too much within
I still believe she was my twin
But I lost the ring
She was born in spring
But I was born too late
Blame it on a simple twist of fate
 

Something There Is About You

Bob Dylan
('Planet waves' album)

Something there is about you  
That strikes a match in me.
Is it the way your body moves  
Or is it the way your hair blows free.
Or is it because you remind me  
Of somethin' that used to be
Somethin' that's crossed over        
From another century.


Thought I'd shaken the wonder  
And the phantoms of my youth.
Rainy days on the Great Lakes  
Walkin' the hills of old Duluth.
There was me and Danny Lopez  
Cold eyes, black night and then there was Ruth
Somethin' there is about you      
That bring back a long forgotten truth.


Suddenly I found you  
And the spirit in me sings.
Don't have to look no further  
You're the soul of many things.
I could say that I'd be faithful  
I could say it in one sweet, easy breath.
But to you that would be cruelty      
And to me it surely would be death.


Something there is about you  
That moves with style and grace.
I was in a whirlwind   
Now I'm in some better place.
My hand's on the sabre  
And you've picked up on the baton
Somethin' there is about you     
That I can't quite put my finger on.

Stuck Inside of Mobil with the Memphis Blues Again

By Bob Dylan

Oh the rag-man draws circles
Up and down the block.
I'd ask him what the matter was
But I know that he don't talk.
And the ladies treat me kindly
And furnish me with tape
But deep inside my heart
I know I can't escape
Oh Mama,
Can this really be the end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
with the Memphis blues again

Well, Shakespear, he's in the alley
With his pointed shoes and his bells.
Speaking to a french girl,
Who says she knows me well.
And I would send a message
To find out if she's talked,
Post the post office has been stolen 
And the mail box is locked.
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Mona tried to tell me
To stay far away from the train line.
She said that all the railroad men
Drink your blood like wine.
An' I said "Oh, I didn't know that
But then again there's only one I've met
An' he just smoked my eyelids
An' punched my cigarette"
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Grandpa died last week
And now he's buried in the rock
But everybody talk about
How badly they were shocked.
But me I expected it to happen
I knew he'd lost control
When he built a fire on main street
And shot it full of holes.
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Now the senator can down here
Showing everyone his gun.
Handing out free tickets
To the wedding of his son.
An' me I nearly got busted
An wouldn't it be my luck
To get caught without a ticket
And be discovered beneath a truck
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Now the preacher looked so baffled
When I asked him why he dressed
With twenty pounds of headlines
Stapled to his chest
But he cursed when I proved to him
Then I whispered not even you can hide.
You see you're just like me
I hope your satisfied
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Now the rainman gave men two cures
Then he said "Jump right in"
The one was Texas medicine
The other railroad gin.
An like a fool I mixed them
An' it strangled up my mind
An' now people just get uglier
An' I have no sense of time.
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

When Ruthie says come see her
In her honkey-yonk lagoon,
Where I can watch her waltz for free
'Neath her Panamanian moon.
An' I say, "Aw come on now
You must know about my dedutante."
An' she says, "Your debutante knows just what you need
But I know what you want."
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Now the bricks lay on Grand Street
Where the neon madmen climb
They all fall there so perfectly.
It all seems so well timed.
An' here I sit so patiently
Waiting to find out what price
You have to pay to get out of
Going through all these things twice
Oh Mama
Can this really be th end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blus again.

Subterranean Homesick Blues by Bob Dylan

Johnny's in the basement mixin' up the medicine,
I'm on the pavement, thinkin' 'bout the government
The man in a trenchcoat badge (??) got laid off,
Says he's got a bad cough, wants to get it paid off
Look out kid, theres something you did,
God knows when, but you're doin' it again.
You better duck down the alleyway, lookin' for a new friend.
The man in the 'coonskin cap in a pigpen
Wants 11 dollar bills, you only got 10.

Maggie calls fleetfoot (??) face full 'o black soot,
Talking at the heat, put (??) plants in the bed, but (??)
The phones tapped anyway, Maggie says the man he say,
They must bust in early May, orders from the DA.
Look out kid, don't matter what ch' ya did,
Walk on your tiptoes, don't tie no bows
Better stay away from those 'ho carry 'round a fire hose.
Keep a clean nose, 'n wash of plain clothes,
You don't need a weather man to know which way the wind blows.

Uhh..Get sick, get well, hang around the inkwell,
Hang bail, hot tail, if anything its gonna sell,
Try hard, get bought, get back, write braille,
Get jail, jump bail, join the army if ya fail.
Look out kid, your gonna get hit, by
Losers, cheaters, six time users, hangin' round the theaters,
Girl by the whrilpool's lookin' for a new fool,
Don't follow leaders or watch the parkin' meters.

Ohh..Get born, keep warm, short pants, romance,
Learn to dance, get dressed, get blessed, try to be a success,
Please her, please him, buy 'er gifts, don't steal, don't lift
Twenty years o' schoolin' and they put ya on the day shift,
Look out kid, they keep it all hid,
Better jump down a manhole, light yourself a candle,
Don't wear sandles, and try to force a scandal,
Don't want to be a bum, you'd better chew gum,
The pump don't work cuz the vandals took the handle.



Talkin' Bear Mountain Picnic Massacre Blues

By Bob Dylan
(from the Bootleg Albums)

Well I saw it advertised one day that the 
Bear Mountain Picnic was coming my way,
Come along and take a trip
we'll bring you up there on a ship
bring the wife and family bring the whole kids - yippee!

Well I ran right down and bought a ticket to this thing called the 
Bear Mountain Picnic
Little did I realise I was in for a pleasant funny surprise -
It had nothing to do with picnics, didn't come close to a mountain
and I hate bears.

Took the wife and kids down to the pier, there was 6000 people there
and everybody had a ticket for the trip, I said "oh well
it's a pretty big ship". Besides anyway the more the merrier!

Well we all got on and what do you think, that big old boat started 
to sink. More people kept piling on and that old ship was going down -
funny way to start a picnic.

Well soon I lost track of my kids and my wife - so many people I never
saw in my life, that old ship started sinking down in the water
and those 6000 people were trying to kill each other. Dogs barking,
cats a-screaming, women a-yelling, men a-flying, fists a-flying, 
paper flying, cops a-comiing, me a-running - I think we'd better just 
call off the picnic.

I got shoved down and got pushed around all I remember was a moaning sound
Don't remember one thing more all I remember is waking up on the shore.
My arms and legs were broken, my feet were splintered, my head was cracked,
I couldn't walk, I couldn't talk, smell, feel, I couldn't see,
I didn't know where  I was, I was bald, quite lucky to be alive though.

Well feeling lucky I climbed out of my casket, I just grabbed back hold 
of my picnic basket, took the wife and kids and started home wishing I'd
never got up that morning. 

Now I don't care just what you do, if you want to have a picnic thats 
up to you, just don't tell me about it I don't want to hear it, you see
I just lost all of my picnic spirit.

I'll stay in my kitchen.
Have a picnic in my bathroom.

Well it don't seem to me quite so funny what some people are gonna 
do for money, there's a brand new gimmick every day, just to take
someones money away.

I think we oughta take some of these people, put 'em on a boat,
send 'em up to bear mountain for a picnic.







TANGLED UP IN BLUE 

Bob Dylan
(Bootleg Series Version)

Early one morning the sun was shinin' he was layin' in bed
Wondering if she'd changed at all, if her hair was still red
Her folks they said that their lives together sure was gonna be rough
They never did like mama's home-made dress, papa's bank book wasn't big enough
And he was standing on the side of the road, rain falling on his shoes
Heading out for the old east coast, Lord knows he's paid some dues
Getting through, tangled up in blue

She was married when they first met, soon to be divorced
He helped her out of a jam I guess but he used a little too much force
And they drove that car as far as they could, abandoned it out west
And split up on a dark sad night, both agreeing it was best
And she turned around to look at him as he was walking away
She said "This can't be the end, we'll meet on another day
On the avenue, tangled up in blue"

He had a job in the old north woods, working as a cook for a spell
But he never did like it all that much and one day the axe just fell
When he drifted down to L.A., where he reckoned to try his luck
Workin' for a while in an airplane plant loading cargo onto a truck
But all the while he was alone, the past was close behind
He's seen alot of women, but she never escaped his mind
And he just grew, tangled up in blue

She was working in topless place, I stopped in for a beer
I just kept looking at the side of her face in the spotlight so clear
And later on as the crowd thinned out, I's about to do the same
She was standing there in back of my chair said to me "What's your name?"
I muttered something underneath my breath, she studied the lines on my face
I must admit I felt a little uneasy, when she bent down to tie the laces
Of my shoe, tangled up in blue

She lit a burner on the stove and offered me a pipe
"I thought you'd never say hello" she said, "You look like the silent type"
Then she opened up a book of poems and handed it to me
Written by an Italian poet from the thirteenth century
And every one of them words rang true and glowed like burning coal
Pourin' off of every page like it was written in my soul
From me to you, tangled up in blue

He was always in a hurry, too busy or too stoned
And everything she ever planned just had to be postponed
He thought they were successful, she thought they were blessed
With objects and material things but I never was impressed
And when it all came crashing down, I became withdrawn
The only thing I knew how to do was to keep on keeping on
Like a bird that flew, tangled up in blue

So now I'm going back again, I got to get to her somehow
All the people we used to know, they're an illusion to me now
Some are mathematicians, some are doctor's wives
Don't know how it all got started
Don't know what they're doin' with their lives
But me, I'm still on the road, headin' for another joint
We always did feel the same, we just saw it from a different point
Of view, tangled up in blue



Tangled Up In Blue

By Bob Dylan

Early one morning the sun was shinin'
I was layin' in bed.
Wondering if she'd changed at all
If her hair was still red.
Her folks they said that our lives together,
Sure was gonna be rough.
They never did like Mama's home-made dress,
Papa's bank book wasn't big enough.
And I was standing on the side of the road,
Rain falling on my shoes.
Heading out for the old east coast,
Lord knows I've paid some dues,
Getting through,
Tangled up in blue.

She was married when we first met
Soon to be divorced
I helped her out of a jam I guess
But I used a little too much force
We drove that car as far as we could
Abandoned it out west
Split up on a sad dark night
Both agreeing it was best
She turned around to look at me
As I was walking away
I heard her say over her shoulder
We'll meet again some day
On the avenue
Tangled up in Blue

I had a job in the great north woods
Working as a cook for a spell
But I never did like it all that  much
And one day the axe just fell
So I drifted down to New Orleans
Where I was lucky to be employed
Workin' for a while on a fishing boat
Right outside of Delacroix
But all the while I was alone
The past was close behind
I seen alot of women
But she never escaped my mind
And I just grew
Tangled up in blue

She was working in topless place
And I stopped in for a beer
I just kept looking at the side of her face
In the spotlight so clear
And later on when the crowd thinned out
I was just about to do the same
She was standing there in back of my chair
Said to me Don't I know your name
I muttered something undernaeth my breath
She studdied the lines on my face
I must admit I felt a little uneasy
When she bent down to tie the laces
Of my shoe
Tangled up in blue

She lit a burner on the stove
And offered me a pipe
I thought you'd never say hello she said
You look like the silent type
Then open up a book of poems 
And handed it to me
Written by an Italian poet
From the thirteenth century
And every one of them words rang true
And glowed like burning coal
Pourin' off of every page
Like it was written in my soul
From me to you
Tangled up in blue

I lived with them on Montague Street
In a basement down the stairs
There was music in the cafes at night
And revolution in the air
Then he started dealing in slaves
And something inside of died
She had to sell everything she owned
And froze up inside.
And when the bottom finally feel out
I became withdrawn
The only thing I knew how to do
Was to keep on keeping on
Like a bird that flew
Tangled up in blue

So now I'm going on back again
I got to get to her some how
All the people we used to know
They're an illusion to me now
Some are mathematicians
Some are carpenters wives
Don'ty know how it all got started
I don't know what they're doing with their lives
But me, I'm still on the road
Headin' for another joint
We always did feel the same
We just saw it from a different point
Of view
Tangled up in blue.




The chords and lyrics posted before are right.  But Dylan's genious
really comes through in his live versions of this song, when he
completely changed the lyrics.  These are the lyrics to the version on
the "Real Live" album:

Early one morning, the sun was shining.
He was laying in bed.
wondering if she changed at all,
if her hair was still red.
Her folks they said that thier lives together
sure was gonna be rough.
They never did like mama's homemade dress,
Papa's bankbook wasn't big enough.
And he was standing on the side of the road
rain falling on his shoes,
heading out for the lone east coast,
radio blasting the news 
straight on through
Tangled up in blue.

She was married when they first met,
to a man 4 times her age.
He left her penniless, in the state of regret,
it was time to break out of the cage.
They drove that car as far as they could,
abandoned it out west.
splitting up on a dark, sad night,
both agreeing that it was best.
And she turned around to look at him 
as he was walking away.
She said I wish I could tell you all the things
that I never learned how to say.
He said thats alright babe I love you too,
but we were tangled up in blue.

He had a steady job and a pretty face,
and everything seemed to fit.
One day he could just feel the waste,
he put it all down and split.
And he headed down to New Orleans,
where they treated him like a boy.
He nearly went mad in Baton Rouge,
he nearly drowned in Delacroix(sp).
And all the time he was alone,
the past was close behind.
he had one too many lovers then,
and none of them were too refined,
all except for you,
but you were tangled up in blue.

She was working in the blinding light,
and I stopped in for a drink.
I just kept looking at her face so white,
I didn't know what to think.
Later on as the crowd thinned out,
I was getting ready to leave.
She was standing there, beside my chair,
saying "Whats that you got up your sleeve?"
I said "nothing baby, and thats for sure"
She leaned down into my face.
I could feel the heat and the pulse of her
as she bent down to tie the lases
of my shoe, 
Tangled up in blue.

I lived with him on Montague street
in a basement down the stairs.
There was snow all winter and no heat,
revolution was in the air.
Then one day all his slaves ran free,
something inside of him died.
The only thing I could do was be me,
and get on that train and ride.
And it all came crashing down,
I was already south.
I didn't know whether the world was flat or round,
I had the worst tast in my mouth,
that I ever knew,
Tangled up in blue.

Now I'm going back again, 
maybe tommorow, maybe next year.
I've got to find someone among the women and men
whose destiny is unclear.
Some are ministers of illusion,
some are masters of the trade.
All under strong delusion,
all of thier beds are unmade.
Me I'm heading toward the sun,
trying to stay out of the joint.
We always did love the very same one.
We just saw her from a different point
of view,
Tangled up in blue.




Temporary like Achilles

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)



Standing on your window, honey, Yes I've been here before.
Feeling so harmless, I'm looking at your second door.
How come you don't send me no regards ?
You know I want your lovin'
Honey, why are you so hard ?

Kneeling 'neath your ceiling, Yes, I guess I'll be here for a while.
I tryin' to read your portrait, but, I'm helpless, like a rich man's child.
How come you send someone out to have me barred ?
You know I want your lovin'
Honey, why are you so hard ?

Like a poor fool in his prime, Yes, I know you can hear me walk,
But is your heart made of stone, or is it lime,
Or is it just solid rock ?

Well, I rush into your hallway, Lean against your velvet door.
I watch upon your scorpion Who crawls across your circus floor.
Just what do you think you have to guard ?
You know I want your lovin'
Honey, but you're so hard.

Chiles is in your alleyway, He don't want me here, He does brag.
He's pointing to the sky And he's hungry like a man in drag.
How come you get someone like him to be your guard ?
You know I want your lovin'
Honey, but you're so hard.


THE BALLAD OF A THIN MAN

Bob Dylan
(from Highway 61 Revisited, 1965)

You walk into the room with your pencil in your hand
You see somebody naked and you say "who is that man?"
You try so hard but you just don't understand
Just what you will say when you get home
Because something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

You raise up your head and you ask "is this where it is?"
And somebody points to you and says "its his"
And you say "what's mine?" and somebody else says "well WHAT is"
And you say "oh my god - am i here all alone?"
But something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

You hand in you ticket and you go watch the geek
Who immediately walks up to you when he hears you speak
Saying "how does it feel to be such a freak?"
And you say "impossible" as he hands you a bone
And something is happening here
But you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

You have many contacts among the lumberjacks
To get you facts when someone attacks your imagination
But nobody has any respect, anyway they already expect you
To all give a check to tax-deductable charity organizations

You've been with the professors, and they all liked your looks
With great lawyers you have discussed lepers and crooks
You've read all of F. Scott Fitzgerald's books
You're very well read, its well known
But something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Well, the swordswallower comes up to you and then he kneels
He crosses himself and he clicks his high heels
And without further notice he asks you how it feels
And he says "here is your throat back, thanks for the loan"
And you know something is happening
But you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Now you see this one-eyed midget saying the word "now"
And you say "for what reason?" and he says "how?"
And you say "what does this mean?" and he screams back "you're a cow!
Give me some milk - or else go home!"
And you KNOW somethings happening here
But you dont know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Well, you walk into the room like a camel and then you frown
You put your eyes in your pocket and your nose on the ground
There oughtta be a law against you coming around
You should be made to wear earphones
Cause something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones



THE GATES OF EDEN

Bob Dylan
(from Bringing it All Back Home, 1965)

Of war and peace the truth just twists, its curfew gull it glides
Upon 4-legged forest clouds the cowboy angel rides
With his candle lit into the sun, though its glow is waxed in black
All except when 'neath the trees of Eden

The lampost stands with folded arms, its iron claws attached
To curbs 'neath holes where babies wail though it shadows metal badge
All in all can only fall with a crashing but meaningless blow
No sound ever comes from the gates of Eden

This savage soldier sticks his head in sand and then complains
Unto the shoeless hunter who's gone deaf but still remains
Upon the beach where hounddogs bay at ships with tattooed sails
Heading for the gates of Eden

With a time-rusted compass blade, Aladdin and his Lamp
Sits with utopian hermit monks, side-saddle on the Golden Calf
And on their promises of paradise you will not hear a laugh
All except inside the gates of Eden

Relationships of ownership they whisper in the wings
To those condemned to act accordingly and wait for succeeding kings
And I try to harmonize with songs the lonesome sparrow sings
There are no kings inside the gates of Eden

The motorcycle black madonna two-wheeled gypsy queen
And her silver studded phantom cause the grey-flanneled dwarf to scream
As he weeps to wicked birds of prey who pick up on his breadcrumbs sins
And there are no sins inside the gates of Eden

The kingdoms of experience in the precious winds they rot
While paupers change possessions each one wishing for what the other has got
And the princess and the prince discuss what's real and what is not
It doesnt matter inside the gates of Eden

The foreign sun it squints upon a bed that is never mine
As friends and other strangers from their fates try to resign
Leaving men wholly totally free to do anything they wish to do but die
And there are no trials inside the gates of Eden

At dawn my lover comes to me and tells me of her dreams
With no attempts to shovel the glimpse into the ditch of what each one means
At times I think there are no words but these to tell what's true
And there are no truths outside the gates of Eden







The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll

by Bob Dylan


William Zantzinger killed poor Hattie Carroll
With a cane that he twirled around his diamond ring finger
At a Baltimore hotel society gath'rin'.
And the cops were called in and his weapon took from him
As they rode him in custody down to the station
And booked William Zantzinger for first-degree murder.
But you who philosophize disgrace and criticize all fears,
Take the rag away from your face.
Now ain't the time for your tears.           

William Zantzinger, who at twenty-four years
Owns a tobacco farm of six hundred acres
With rich wealthy parents who provide and protect him
And high office relations in the politics of Maryland,
Reacted to his deed with a shrug of his shoulders
And swear words and sneering, and his tongue it was snarling,
In a matter of minutes on bail was out walking.
But you who philosophize disgrace and criticize all fears,
Take the rag away from your face.
Now ain't the time for your tears.

Hattie Carroll was a maid of the kitchen.
She was fifty-one years old and gave birth to ten children
Who carried the dishes and took out the garbage
And never sat once at the head of the table
And didn't even talk to the people at the table
Who just cleaned up all the food from the table
And emptied the ashtrays on a whole other level,
Got killed by a blow, lay slain by a cane
That sailed through the air and came down through the room,
Doomed and determined to destroy all the gentle.
And she never done nothing to William Zantzinger.
But you who philosophize disgrace and criticize all fears,
Take the rag away from your face.
Now ain't the time for your tears.

In the courtroom of honor, the judge pounded his gavel
To show that all's equal and that the courts are on the level
And that the strings in the books ain't pulled and persuaded
And that even the nobles get properly handled
Once that the cops have chased after and caught 'em
And that the ladder of law has no top and no bottom,
Stared at the person who killed for no reason
Who just happened to be feelin' that way without warnin'.
And he spoke through his cloak, most deep and distinguished,
And handed out strongly, for penalty and repentance,
William Zantzinger with a six-month sentence.
Oh, but you who philosophize disgrace and criticize all fears,
Bury the rag deep in your face.
For now's the time for your tears.




The Mighty Quinn

Bob Dylan

Come all without, come all within
You'll not see nothing like the Mighty Quinn
Come all without, come all within
You'll not see nothing like the Mighty Quinn

Ev'rybody's building ships and boats
Some are building monuments, others jotting down notes.
Ev'rybody's in despair, ev'ry girl and boy
But when Quinn the Eskimo gets here,
Ev'rybody's gonna jump for joy.
Come all without...

I like to go just like the rest, I like my sugar sweet
But jumping queues and making haste, just ain't my cup of meat.
Ev'ryone's beneath the trees, feeding pigeons on a limb
But when Quinn the Eskimo gets here,
All the pigeons gonna rum to him.
Come all without...

Let me do what I wanna do, I can recite 'em all
Just tell me where it hurts and I'll tell you who to call.
Nobody can get no sleep, there's someone on ev'ryones toes.
But when Quinn the Eskimo gets here,
Ev'rybody's gonna wanna doze.




The Times They Are A-Changin'

Words and Music by Bob Dylan


Come gather 'round people wherever you roam
And admit that the waters around you have grown
And accept it that soon you'll be drenched to the bone
If your time to you is worth savin'
Then you better start swimmin' or you'll sink like a stone,
For the times, they are a chang - in'

Come writers and critics who prophecies with your pen
And keep your eyes wide the chance won't come again
And don't speak too soon for the wheel's still in spin
And there's no tellin' who that it's namin'
For the loser now will be later to win
For the times they are a-changin'

Come mothers and fathers throughout the land
And don't criticize what you don't understand
Your sons and your daughters are beyond your command
Your old road is rapidly agin'
Please get out of the new one if you can't lend a hand
For the times they are a-changin'

Come senators, congressmen please heed the call
Don't stand in the doorway, don't block up the hall
For he that gets hurt will be he who has stalled
There's a battle outside and it's ragin'
It'll soon shake your windows and rattle your walls
For the times they are a-changin'

The line it is drawn the curse it is cast
The slow one now will later be fast
As the present now will later be past
The order is rapidly fadin'
And the first one now will later be last
For the times they are a-changin'

TIME PASSES SLOWLY

Bob Dylan
(from New Morning, 1970)

Time passes slowly up here in the mountains
We sit beside bridges and walk beside fountains
Catch the wild fishes that float through the stream
Time passes slowly when you're lost in a dream

Once I had a sweetheart she was fine and good lookin'
We sat in her kitchen while her mama was cookin            
Stared out the window to the stars high above
Time passes slowly when you're searchin' for love

Ain't no reason to go in a wagon to town
Ain't no reason to go to the fair
Ain't no reason to go up, ain't no reason to go down
Ain't no reason to go anywhere

Time passes slowly up here in the daylight
We stare straight ahead and try so hard to stay right
Like the red rose of summer that blooms in the day
Time passes slowly and fades away



TOMORROW IS A LONG TIME 

by Bob Dylan 

If today was not an endless highway
If tonight was not a crooked trail
If tomorrow wasn't such a long time
Then lonesome would mean nothing to you at all

Yes, and only if my own true love was waitin'
Yes, and if I could hear her heart a-softly poundin'
Only if she was lyin' by me
Then I'd lie in my bed once again.

I can't see my reflection in the water
I can't speak the sounds that show no pain
I can't hear the echo of my footsteps
Or can't remember the sound of my own name

There's beauty in the silver, singing river
There's beauty in the sunrise in the sky
But none of these and nothing else can touch the beauty
That I remember in my true love's eyes.




TONIGHT I'LL BE STAYING HERE WITH YOU

Bob Dylan
(from Nashville Skyline, 1969)

Throw my ticket out the window
Throw my suitcase out there too
Throw my troubles out the door
I don't need them any more
'Cause tonight I'll be staying here with you 

I should have left this town this morning 
But it was more than I could do  
Oh, your love comes on so strong 
And I've waited all day long 
For tonight when I'll be staying here with you 

Is it really any wonder
The love that a stranger might receive  
You cast your spell and I went under 
I find it so difficult to leave 

I can hear that whistle blowin'
I see that stationmaster, too,
If there's a poor boy on the street 
Then let him have my seat 
'Cause tonight I'll be staying here with you 




To Make You Feel My Love

Words and Music by Bob Dylan

When the rain is blowing in your face
And the whole world is on your case
I could offer you a warm embrace
To make you feel my love

When evening shadows and the stars appear
And there is no one there to dry your tears
I could hold you for a million years
To make you feel my love

I know you haven't made your mind up yet
But I would never do you wrong
I've known it from the moment that we met
No doubt in my mind where you belong

I'd go hungry I'd go black and blue
I'd go crawling down the avenue
No there's nothing that I wouldn't do
To make you feel my love

The storms are raging on the open seas
And on the highway of regret
The winds of change are blowing wild and free
You ain't seen nothing like me yet

I could make you happy make your dreams come true
Nothing that I wouldn't do
Go to the ends of the earth for you
To make you feel my love




Visions of Johanna

Bob Dylan
('Blonde on Blonde' album)


Ain't it just like the night to play tricks when you're tryin' to be so quiet?
We sit here stranded, though we're all doin' our best to deny it
And Louise holds a handful of rain, temptin' you to defy it
Lights flicker from the opposite loft
In this room the heat pipes just cough
The country music station plays soft
But there's nothing, really nothing to turn off
Just Louise and her lover so entwined
And these visions of Johanna that conquer my mind.

In the empty lot where the ladies play blind man's bluff with the key chain
And the allnight girls, they whisper of escapades out on the "D" train
We can hear the night watchman click his flashlight
Ask himself if it's him or them that's realy insane
Louise, she's allright, she's just near
She's delicate and seems like the mirror
But she just makes it all too concice and too clear
That Johanna's not here
The ghost of 'lectricity howls in the bones of her face
Where these visions of Johanna have now taken my place.


Now, little boy lost, he takes himself so seriously
He brags of his misery, he likes to live dangerously
And when bringing her name up He speaks of a farewell kiss to me
He's sure got a lotta gall
to be so useless and all
Muttering small talk at the wall
while I'm in the hall
How can I explain? Oh, it's so hard to get on
And these visions of Johanna, they kept me up past the dawn.


Inside the museums, Infinity goes up on trial
Voices echo this is what salvation must be like after a while
But Mona Lisa musta had the highway blues You can tell by the way she smiles
See the primitive wallflower freeze
When the jellyfaced women all sneeze
Hear the one with the mustache say, "Jeeze, I can't find my knees"
Oh, jewels and binoculars hang from the head of the mule
But these visions of Johanna they make it all seem so cruel.

The peddler now speaks to the countess who's pretending to care for him
Sayin' "Name me someone that's not a parasite
and I'll go out and say a prayer for him." But like Louise
always says, "Ya can't look at much, can ya man?" As she, herself, prepares for him
And Madonna, she still has not showed
We see this empty cage now corrode
Where her cape of the stage once had flowed
The fiddler, he now steps to the road
He writes ev'rything's been returned which was owed
On the back of the fish truck that loads While my conscience explodes
The harmonicas play the skeleton keys and the rain
And these visions of Johanna are now all that remain.


WATCHING THE RIVER FLOW

Bob Dylan

What's the matter with me? I don't have much to say
Daylight's sneaking' through the window
And I'm still in this all night cafe
Walking to and fro beneath the moon
Out to where the trucks are rolling slow
Sit out on this bank of sand and watch the river flow

Wish I was back in the city instead of this ol' bank of sand
With the sun beatin' down over the chimney tops
And the one I love so close at hand
If I had wings and I could fly, I know where I would go
But right now I just sit here so contentedly
And watch the river flow   

People disagreein' on just about everything, yep
Makes you stop and wonder why
Why only yesterday I saw someone on the street
Who just couldn't help but cry

Wo, but this old river keeps on rollin' though
No matter what gets in the way and which was the wind does blow
And as long as it does I just sit here
And watch the river flow

People disagreein' everywhere you look
Makes you want to stop and read a book
Why only yesterday I saw somebody on the street
That was a-really shook ...

Watch the river flow, watching the river flow
Watching the river flow
Well, I just sit out on this bank of sand
And watch the river flow


 

WEDDING SONG

(Words and Music by Bob Dylan)

I love you more than ever, more than time and more than love,
I love you more than money and more than the stars above,
Love you more than madness, more than dreams upon the sea,
Love you more than life itself, you mean that much to me.

Ever since you walked right in, the circle's been complete,
I've said goodbye to haunted rooms and faces in the street,
To the courtyard of the jester which is hidden from the sun,
I love you more than ever and I haven't yet begun.

You breathed on me and made my life a richer one to live,
When I was deep in poverty you taught me how to give,
Dried the tears up from my dreams and pulled me from the hole,
Quenched my thirst and satisfied the burning in my soul.

You gave me babies one, two, three, what is more, you saved my life,
Eye for eye and tooth for tooth, your love cuts like a knife,
My thoughts of you don't ever rest, they'd kill me if I lie,
I'd sacrifice the world for you and watch my senses die.

The tune that is yours and mine to play upon this earth,
We'll play it out the best we know, whatever it is worth,
What's lost is lost, we can't regain what went down in the flood,
But happiness to me is you and I love you more than blood.

It's never been my duty to remake the world at large,
Nor is it my intention to sound a battle charge,
'Cause I love you more than all of that with a love that doesn't bend,
And if there is eternity I'd love you there again.

Oh, can't you see that you were born to stand by my side
And I was born to be with you, you were born to be my bride,
You're the other half of what I am, you're the missing piece
And I love you more than ever with that love that doesn't cease.

You turn the tide on me each day and teach my eyes to see,
Just bein' next to you is a natural thing for me
And I could never let you go, no matter what goes on,
'Cause I love you more than ever now that the past is gone.



WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?

Bob Dylan

You have given everything to Me
What can I do for you?
You have given me eyes to see           
What can I do for you?

???????????????????? and you made me renewed inside
Filled up the hunger where'd it'd always been denied
Opened up the door no man can shut and you opened it up so wide
And you chosen me to be among the few
What can I do for you?

You have laid down you life for Me
What can I do for you?
You have explained every Mystery           
What can I do for you?

Soon as a man is born you know the sparks begin to fly
He gets wise in his own eyes and he's made to believe a lie
Who would deliver him from the death he's bound to die?
Well, youv'e done it all and there's no more any one can be dared enough to do
What can I do for you?

You have given all there is to give
What can I give to you?
You have given me life to live
How can I live for you?

I know all about poison
I know about fiery doubts
I don't care how rough the road is
Show me where to start
What ever please you tell it to my heart
Well I don't deserve it but I did make it through
What can I do for you?



WHEN I PAINT MY MASTERPIECE

Bob Dylan
(from Bob Dylan's Greatest Hits Vol. 2, done around 1971)

Oh, the streets of Rome are filled with rubble
Ancient footprints are everywhere
You can almost think that you're seein' double
On a cord, dark night on the Spanish Stairs
Got to hurry on back to my hotel room
Where I've got me a date with Botticelli's niece
She promised that she'd be right there with me 
When I paint my masterpiece

Oh, the hours I've spent inside the Coliseum
Dodging lions and wastin' time
Oh, those mighty kings of the jungle
I could hardly stand to see 'em
Yes, it sure has been a long, hard climb
Train wheels runnin' through the back of my memory
When I ran on the hilltop following a pack of wild geese 
Someday, everything is gonna be smooth like a rhapsody
When I paint my masterpiece

Sailin'round the world in a dirty gondola
Oh to be back in the land of Coca Cola!

I left Rome and landed in Brussels
On a plane ride so bumpy that I almost cried
Clergymen in uniform and young girls pullin' muscles
Everyone was there to greet me when I stepped inside
Newspapermen eating candy had to be held down by big police Someday, 
everything is gonna be different
When I paint my masterpiece





When the Ship Comes In
                  
Bob Dylan
(from the album The Times They Are A-Changin')

Oh the time will come up when the winds will stop
And the breeze will cease to be a-breathin
Like the stillness in the wind before the hurricane begins,
The hour that the ship comes in
And the sea will split and the ships will hit
And the sands on the shoreline will be shaking
And the tide will sound and the waves will pound
And the morning will be a-breaking

Oh the fishes will laugh as they swim out of the path
And the seagulls will be a-smilin'
And the rocks on the sand will proudly stand
The hour that the ship comes in 
And the words that are used for to get the ship confused
Will not be understood as they're spoken
Oh the chains of the sea will have busted in the night
And be buried on the bottom of the ocean

A song will lift as the main sail shifts
And the boat drifts unto the shoreline
And the sun will respect every face on the deck
The hour that the ship comes in
And the sands will roll out a carpet of gold
For your wearied toes to be a-touchin'
And the ship's wise men will remind you once again
That the whole wide world is watchin'

Oh the foes will rise with the sleep still in their eyes 
And they'll jerk from their beds and think they're dreamin'
But they'll pinch themselves and squeal 
And they'll know that it's for real, 
The hour that the ship comes in
And they'll raise their hands 
Sayin' we'll meet all you demands
But we'll shout from the bow 
Your days are numbered
And like Pharoah's tribe they'll be drownded in the tide 
And like Goliath they'll be conquered


WITH GOD ON OUR SIDE

Bob Dylan 

Oh my name it is nothin' my age it mean less
The country I come from is called the  Midwest
I's taught and brought up there The laws to abide
and that land that I live in Has god on its side.

Oh the history book tell it they tell it so well
The cavalries charged and the Indians fell
The cavalries charged and the Indians died
Oh the country was young with god on its side.

Oh the Spanish-American war had its day
And the Civil War too was soon laid away
and the names of the heroes I was made to memorize 
with guns in their hands and god on their side.

The First World War, boys it closed out its fate
The reason for fighting I never got straight
but I learned to accept it, accept it with pride
and you don't count the dead when god's on your side.

But now we got weapons of the chemical dust
if fire them we're forced to, then fire we must
one push of the button and shot the world wide
and you never ask questions when God's on his side

In a many dark hour I've been thinkin' about this
that Jesus Christ was betrayed by a kiss
But I can't think for you, you'll have to decide
wheter Judas Iscariot, had God on his side.

So now as I'm leavin', I'm weary as hell
the confusion I'm feelin' ain't no tongue can tell
Who words fill my head and fall to the floor
If God's on our side he'll stop the next war. 

When the Second World War came to an end
we forgave the Germans and we were friends
Though they murdered six million in the ovens they fried
the Germans now too have god on their side.

I've learned to hate Russians all through my wole life
if another war starts It's them we must fight
To hate them and fear them to run and to hide
and accept i all bravely with god on our side.





YEA! HEAVY AND A BOTTLE OF BREAD 

Words and Music by Bob Dylan

Well, the comic book and me, just us, we caught the bus
The poor little chauffeur, though, she was back in bed
On the very next day, with a nose full of pus
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread

It's a one-track town, just brown, and a breeze, too,
Pack up the meat, sweet, we're headin' out
For Wichita in a pile of fruit
Get the loot, don't be slow, we're gonna catch a trout
Get the loot, don't be slow, we're gonna catch a trout
Get the loot, don't be slow, we're gonna catch a trout

Now, pull that drummer out from behind that bottle
Bring me my pipe, we're gonna shake it
Slap that drummer with a pie that smells
Take me down to California, baby
Take me down to California, baby
Take me down to California, baby

Yes, the comic book and me, just us, we caught the bus
The poor little chauffeur, though, she was back in bed
On the very next day, with a nose full of pus
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread
Yea! Heavy and a bottle of bread




YOU'RE A BIG GIRL NOW

Bob Dylan
(Blood on the Tracks, 1975)

Our conversation was short and sweet
It nearly swept me off of my feet
And I'm back in the rain,        oooh and you are on dry land
You made it there somehow
You're a big girl now

Bird on the horizon sittin' on a fence
He's singing his song for me at his own expense
And I'm just like that bird, oooh singin' just for you
I hope that you can hear
Hear me singin' through these tears

Time is a jet plane, it moves too fast
Oh but what a shame that all we've shared can't last
I can change I swear, woooa see what you can do
I can make it through
You can make it too

Love is so simple to quote a phrase
You've known it all the time, I'm learnin' it these days
Oh, I know where I can find you, oooh in somebody's room
It's a price I have to pay
You're a big girl all the way

A change in the weather is known to be extreme
But what's the sense of changing horses in midstream
I'm going out of my mind, oooh with a pain that stops and starts
Like a corkscrew to my heart
Ever since we've been apart




YOU'RE GONNA MAKE ME LONESOME WHEN YOU GO

Bob Dylan

I've seen love go by my door, it's never been this close before
Never been so easy or so slow
I've been shooting in the dark too long, when something's not right, it's wrong
You're gonna make me lonesome when you go

Dragon clouds so high above, I've only known careless love
It always has hit me from below
But this time 'round it's more correct, right on target, so direct
You're gonna make me lonesome when you go

Purple clover, Queen Anne Lace, crimson hair across your face
You could make me cry if you don't know
Can't remember what I was thinking of, you might be spoiling me too much, love
You're gonna make me lonesome when you go

Flowers on the hillside blooming crazy
Crickets talking back and forth in rhyme
Blue river running slow and lazy
I could stay with you forever, and never realize the time

Situations have ended sad, relationships have all been bad
Mine have been like Verlaine and Rimbaud
But there's no way I can compare all those scenes to this affair
You're gonna make me lonesome when you go

You're gonna make me wonder what I'm doing
Staying far behind without you
You're gonna make me wonder what I'm saying
You're gonna make me give myself a good talking to

I look for you in old Honolulu, San Francisco, Ashtabula
You're gonna have to leave me now, I know
But I'll see you in the sky above, in the tall grass and the ones I love
You're gonna make me lonesome when you go



You're No Good (Jesse Fuller)

(from the album "Bob Dylan",1962)

 

Well I don't know why I love you like I do
Nobody in the world can get along with you.
You got the ways of a devil sleeping in a lion's den
I come home last night you wouldn't even let me in.
Oh sometimes you're as sweet as anybody want to be
When you get a crazy notion, jumpin' all over me
Well you give me the blues because you're satisfied
An' you give me the blues I wanna lay down and die. 

I helped you when you had no shoes on your feet, pretty mama
I helped you when you had no food to eat.
You're the kind of woman I just don't understand
You're takin' all my money and give it to another man.
Well you're the kinda woman makes a man lose his brain
You're the kinda woman drives a man insane
You give me the blues because you're satisfied
You give me the blues I wanna lay down and die
Well you give me the blues, I wanna lay down and die

 

You Ain't Goin' Nowhere

Bob Dylan


Clouds so swift, rain won't lift,
Gates won't close, the railing's froze.
Get your mind off winter time,
You ain't goin' nowhere.

Oooo, Eeeee, Ride me high,
One of these days my man's gonna come.
Oh Lord, we gonna fly,
Down in the easy chair.

I don't care how many letters they sent,
Morning came and morning went.
Pick up your money and pack your tent,
But we still ain't goin' nowhere.

Buy me a flute and a gun that shoots,
Tailgates and substitutes,
Strap yourself with the tree with roots,
You ain't goin' nowhere.

Ghengis Khan he could not keep
All his kings supplied with reap.
Climb that hill no matter how steep,
We still ain't goin' nowhere.
